-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 OIN4OQvfj27OxxRQp8913LNuqcORa/vhYUCnW4hnGsfUiqUySJot0/pf9KwnDRjw
 lWGFBCltbptY1Dkmtfzxzg==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000040545-94-000003.txt : 19940314
<IMS-HEADER>0000040545-94-000003.hdr.sgml : 19940314
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000040545-94-000003
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19931231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19940311

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000040545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	3600
		IRS NUMBER:				140689340
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		34
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00035
		FILM NUMBER:		94515717

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		C/O BANK OF NEW YORK
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06431
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2033732816
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

SECTIONS

Business                                                         2
Properties                                                      15
Legal Proceedings                                               15
Market for Stock                                                20
Selected Financial Data                                         21
Management's Discussion                                         21
Financial Statements                                            21
Disagreements                                                   21
Directors and Officers                                          22
Executive Compensation                                          23
Security Ownership                                              23
Certain Relationships                                           23
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                         23
Signatures                                                      27
Differences Letter                                            F-47

<PAGE>

                                   FORM 10-K
               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                       
(Mark One)

(x)   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934
      
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993   Commission file number 1-35

                                      or
                                       
( )   Transition Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934
      
For the transition period from                to
                                  ---------        --------


                           GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
                                       
           New York                              14-0689340
(State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT        06431-0001     203/373-2459
(Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)   (Telephone No.)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

Title of each class                             Name of each exchange on
                                                which registered

Common stock, par value $0.63 per share         New York Stock Exchange
                                                Boston Stock Exchange

      There were 853,832,790 shares of common stock with a par value of
$0.63 outstanding at March 5, 1994.  These shares, which constitute all of
the voting stock of the registrant, had an aggregate market value on
March 7, 1994, of $90.3 billion.  Affiliates of the Company beneficially
own, in the aggregate, less than one-tenth of one percent of such shares.

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes  x  No
    ---     ---

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x
                                          ---
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant's Annual Meeting
of Share Owners, to be held April 27, 1994, is incorporated by reference in
Part III to the extent described therein.

                                      (1)
<PAGE>
                                    PART I
                                       
Item 1. Business

General

      Unless otherwise indicated by the context, the terms "GE," "GECS" and
"GE Capital Services" are used on the basis of consolidation described in note
1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 45 of the 1993 Annual
Report to Share Owners of General Electric Company.  Where appropriate for
clarification or emphasis, GE is also referred to as "GE except GECS."  The
financial section of such Annual Report to Share Owners (pages 25 through 64
of that document) is set forth in Part IV Item 14 (a) (1) of this 10-K Report
and is an integral part hereof.  References in Parts I and II of this 10-K
Report are to the page numbers of the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners
included in Part IV of this 10-K Report.  Also, unless otherwise indicated by
the context, "General Electric" means the parent Company, General Electric
Company.

      General Electric's address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999;
the Company also maintains executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike,
Fairfield, CT 06431-0001.

      The "Company" (General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates) is
one of the largest and most diversified industrial corporations in the world.
From the time of General Electric's incorporation in 1892, the Company has
engaged in developing, manufacturing and marketing a wide variety of products
for the generation, transmission, distribution, control and utilization of
electricity.  Over the years, development and application of related and new
technologies have broadened considerably the scope of activities of the
Company and its affiliates.  The Company's products include, but are not
limited to, lamps; major appliances for the home; industrial automation
products and components; motors; electrical distribution and control
equipment; locomotives; power generation and delivery products; nuclear
reactors, nuclear power support services and fuel assemblies; commercial and
military aircraft jet engines; materials, including engineered plastics,
silicones and cutting materials; and a wide variety of high technology
products, including products used in defense and medical diagnostic
applications.  GE's Aerospace business segment, its subsidiary GE Government
Services, Inc., and a component of GE that operated Knolls Atomic Power
Laboratory under contract with the U.S. Department of Energy were transferred
on April 2, 1993, to a new company controlled by the shareholders of Martin
Marietta Corporation.  The businesses transferred provided high-technology
products and services such as automated test systems, electronics, avionic
systems, computer software, armament systems, military vehicle equipment,
missile system components, simulation systems, spacecraft, communication
systems, radar, sonar and systems integration, and a variety of specialized
services for government customers.  Accordingly, the businesses that were
transferred have been classified as discontinued operations in the 1993 Annual
Report to Share Owners and throughout this report.

      The Company also offers a broad variety of services including product
support services; electrical product supply houses; electrical apparatus
installation, engineering, repair and rebuilding services; and computer-
related information services.  Through a wholly owned subsidiary, General

                                      (2)
                                       
<PAGE>

Electric Capital Services, Inc., (GECS) and its three principal subsidiaries,
the Company engages in a broad spectrum of financial services including
consumer financing, commercial and industrial financing, real estate
financing, asset management and leasing, specialty insurance, reinsurance, and
investment banking and brokerage services.  Other services offered include
U.S. satellite communications furnished by GE Americom.  Another wholly owned
subsidiary, National Broadcasting Company, Inc. ("NBC"), is engaged
principally in furnishing network television services, in operating television
stations, and in providing cable programming and distribution services in the
United States, Europe and Latin America.  The Company also licenses patents
and provides technical know-how related to products it developed, but such
activities are not material to the Company.

      Aggressive and able competition, often highly concentrated and global,
is encountered in virtually all of the Company's business activities.  In many
instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology
requiring continuing research and development commitments, and by capital-
intensive needs to meet customer requirements.  With respect to manufacturing
operations, it is believed that, in general, GE has a leadership position
(i.e., number one or two) in most major markets served.  The NBC Television
Network is one of four competing major national commercial broadcast
television networks.  It also competes with certain cable and satellite
television programming activities.  The businesses in which GE Capital
Services engages are subject to vigorous competition from various types of
financial institutions, including commercial banks and brokerage firms,
investment banks, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan companies,
independent finance companies, finance companies associated with
manufacturers, and insurance and reinsurance companies.

      GE has substantial export sales from the United States.  In addition,
the Company has majority and minority or other joint venture interests in a
number of non-U.S. companies engaged primarily in manufacturing and
distributing products and providing nonfinancial services similar to those
sold within the United States.  GECS' financial services operations outside of
the United States have expanded considerably over the past several years.

Industry Segments

      The Company's operations are highly decentralized.  The basic
organization of GE's continuing operations consists of twelve key businesses
which contain management units of differing sizes.  For industry segment
reporting purposes, the businesses are aggregated by the principal industries
in which the Company participates.  This aggregation is on a worldwide basis,
which means that multi-industry non-U.S. affiliates' operations are classified
by appropriate industry segment.

      Financial information on consolidated industry segments is presented on
page 35 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners in two parts:  one for GE
that includes GECS in the All Other segment on a one-line basis in accordance
with the equity method of accounting, and one for GECS as a separate entity.
For GE, four of the 12 key businesses (Aircraft Engines, Appliances,
Industrial and Power Systems and NBC) represent individual segments (namely,
Aircraft Engines, Appliances, Power Systems and Broadcasting, respectively).
Except for "All Other," the remaining

                                      (3)
                                       
<PAGE>

businesses are aggregated by the three industry segments in which they
participate (Industrial, Materials and Technical Products and Services).  The
All Other segment consists primarily of GECS' earnings discussed above and
revenues derived from licensing use of GE know-how and patents to others.  For
GECS, revenues and operating profit are presented separately by the three
industry segments in which it conducts its business (Financing, Specialty
Insurance and Securities Broker-Dealer).  There is appropriate elimination of
the net earnings of GECS and the immaterial effect of transactions between GE
and GECS segments to arrive at total consolidated data.

      Additional financial data and commentary on recent operating results for
industry segments are reported on pages 33-38 of the 1993 Annual Report to
Share Owners.  Further details can be found in note 29 (pages 60 and 61 of
that Report) to the consolidated financial statements.  These data and
comments are for General Electric Company's continuing operations, except as
otherwise indicated, and should be referred to in conjunction with the summary
description of each of the industry segments which follows.

Aircraft Engines

      Aircraft Engines (10.9%, 12.9% and 14.2% of consolidated revenues in
1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively) produces and sells a single class of
products - aircraft engines and related replacement parts - for use in
military and commercial aircraft, in naval ships for propulsion, and as
industrial power sources.  GE's military engines are used in a wide variety of
aircraft that includes fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters.  GE's CFM56
and CF6 engines power aircraft in all categories of commercial aircraft:
short, medium and long range.  Applications for GE's CFM56 engine, produced
jointly by GE and SNECMA of France, include:  Boeing's 737-300/-400/-500
series and the new 737-300X; Airbus Industrie's A319, A320, A321 and A340
series; and military aircraft such as the KC-135R/
C-135FR, E/KE-3 and E-6.  GE's CF6 family of engines powers intermediate and
long-range aircraft such as Boeing's 747 and 767 series, Airbus Industrie's
A300, A310 and A330 series, and McDonnell Douglas' DC-10 and MD-11 series.  GE
also produces jet engines for executive aircraft and regional commuter
aircraft, and aircraft engine derivatives used for marine propulsion,
mechanical drives and industrial power generation sources.  GE also provides
maintenance and repair services for many models of jet engines, including
engines manufactured by competitors.

      The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines is intense and highly
concentrated.  Both U.S. and export markets are important.  Product
development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to
success.  Research and development expenditures, both customer-financed and
internally funded, are also important in this segment.  In cooperation with
partners SNECMA, IHI, and Fiat, Aircraft Engines is currently developing the
GE90 engine to power Boeing's new 777 twin-engine aircraft.  The GE90 broke an
industry record on its initial ground testing in 1993, reaching thrust levels
in excess of 105,000 pounds.  It also flew on a 747 testbed in the engine's
first flight and subsequently demonstrated the lowest fuel consumption ever
achieved by a large high-bypass turbofan engine.  Plans are to certify the
engine in 1994 with introduction into active airline service in 1995.
Potential sales for any engine are limited by its technological lifetime,
which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in the state of
the art, by the small number of potential customers and by the limited number
of airframes.  Sales of

                                      (4)
                                       
<PAGE>

replacement parts and services are an important part of the business.
Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles,
although patterns for military and commercial engine procurements are
different.  U.S. procurements of military jet engines are affected by the
government's response to changes in the global political and economic outlook.

      In line with industry practice, sales of commercial jet aircraft engines
often involve long-term financing commitments to customers.  In making such
commitments, it is GE's general practice to require that it have, or be able
to establish, a secured position in the aircraft being financed.  Under such
airline financing programs, GE had issued loans and guarantees (principally
guarantees) amounting to $1.2 billion at year-end 1993, and had entered into
commitments totaling $1.4 billion to provide financial assistance on future
aircraft engine sales.  Estimated fair values of the aircraft securing these
receivables and guarantees exceeded the related account balances or guaranteed
amounts at December 31, 1993.

      For current information about Aircraft Engines orders and backlogs, see
page 34 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners.

Appliances

      Appliances (9.2%, 9.3% and 9.6% of consolidated revenues in 1993, 1992
and 1991, respectively) manufactures and/or markets a single class of product
- - major appliances - including kitchen and laundry equipment such as
refrigerators, ranges, microwave ovens, freezers, dishwashers, clothes washers
and dryers, and room air conditioners.  These are sold under GE, Hotpoint,
RCA, Monogram and Profile brands as well as under private brands for
retailers.  GE microwave ovens and room air conditioners are mainly sourced
from Asian suppliers while investment in Company-owned U.S. facilities is
focused on refrigerators, dishwashers, ranges (primarily electric, but some
gas) and home laundry equipment.  A large portion of appliance sales is for
the replacement market.  Such sales are through a variety of retail outlets.
The other principal market consists of residential building contractors who
install appliances in new dwellings.  GE has a U.S. service network that
supports GE's appliance business.

      Appliances is increasing its operating presence in the global business
arena and participates in numerous manufacturing and distribution joint
ventures around the world.  This increase included the start-up of Godrej-GE,
a joint venture with India's largest appliance manufacturer, Godrej & Boyce
Ltd., in 1993.  GE and Toshiba established a joint venture in 1991 to
cooperate in marketing GE, Hotpoint and Creda products in Japan through
Toshiba's distribution network.  A 1990 joint venture in Mexico, MABE,
produces high-quality gas ranges for the Mexican and U.S. markets.  In 1993,
MABE completed a new top-mount refrigerator facility and opened a new
technology center.  European market participation was expanded significantly
in 1989 with the formation of a joint venture with General Electric Company
plc (GEC), an unrelated corporation in the United Kingdom.

      Markets for appliances are influenced by economic trends such as
increases or decreases in consumer disposable income, availability of credit,
and housing construction.  Competition is very active in all products and
comes from a relatively small number of principal manufacturers and suppliers.
An important factor is cost, and considerable

                                      (5)
                                       
<PAGE>

competitive emphasis is placed on minimizing manufacturing and distribution
costs, and on reducing cycle time from order to product delivery.  Other
significant factors include quality, features offered, innovation, customer
responsiveness and appliance service capability.  A number of processes, such
as Quick Response, New Product Introduction and Quick Market Intelligence,
have been implemented to improve GE's competitiveness in these areas.  Another
example of a significant initiative is "Save the Park," a joint initiative
between management and unions, which was implemented during 1993 at Appliance
Park in Louisville, KY. to streamline processes, improve quality, realize
significant savings and, ultimately, to prevent relocation to alternative
sites.

Broadcasting

      Broadcasting (5.1%, 5.9% and 5.7% of consolidated revenues in 1993, 1992
and 1991, respectively) consists primarily of the National Broadcasting
Company (NBC).  NBC's principal businesses are the furnishing within the
United States of network television services to affiliated television
stations, the production of live and recorded television programs, and the
operation, under licenses from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), of
six VHF television broadcasting stations.  The NBC Television Network is one
of the competing major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks and
serves more than 200 regularly affiliated stations within the United States.
The television stations NBC owns and operates are located in Chicago; Denver;
Los Angeles; Miami; New York; and Washington, D.C.  Broadcasting operations,
including the NBC Television Network and owned stations, are subject to FCC
regulation.  NBC's operations include investment and programming activities in
cable television, principally through its ownership of CNBC and equity
investments in Arts and Entertainment, Court TV, American Movie Classics,
Bravo, Prime Network and regional Sports Channels across the United States.
In 1993, NBC acquired control of Super Channel, the largest pan-European
satellite-delivered general program service.  It also launched Canal de
Noticias NBC, a new 24-hour Spanish-language channel delivered by satellite in
Latin America.  The cable television and network broadcast programming
environments are highly competitive.

Industrial

      Industrial (12.2%, 12.1% and 12.4% of consolidated revenues in 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively) encompasses lighting products, electrical
distribution and control equipment for industrial and commercial
construction, transportation systems, motors, industrial automation
products and GE Supply.  No "similar" class of products or services within
the segment approached 10% of any year's consolidated revenues during the
three years ended December 31, 1993.  Customers for many of these products
and services include electrical distributors, original equipment
manufacturers and industrial end users.  Lighting products include a wide
variety of lamps - incandescent, fluorescent, high intensity discharge,
halogen and specialty - as well as wiring devices and quartz products.
Markets and customers are principally in the United States, although
international markets continue to increase in importance.  In 1993, the
Lighting business agreed to form a joint venture in China, GE Jiabao
Lighting Company, Ltd. to manufacture, distribute and sell a full line of
lighting products. GE has also strengthened its position in Japan with the
start-up of Hitachi GE Lighting Ltd., a joint venture that was established
in 1992 to sell and

                                      (6)
                                       
<PAGE>

distribute lighting products in the significant Japanese lighting market.
Another GE Lighting venture, GE Apar Lighting Private Ltd., continued to
expand during 1993 with investments in new facilities and in the only
"ribbon" glassmaking equipment in India or Southeast Asia.  In addition,
the 1993 acquisition of Lumalampan AB's well-regarded Luma brand
strengthened Lighting's position in Scandinavia.  The 1990 acquisition of a
majority interest in Tungsram Company, Ltd. of Hungary (now wholly owned)
and the early 1991 acquisition of the light source business of Thorn EMI of
the United Kingdom are fully integrated into European operations.  Markets
for lighting products are extremely varied, ranging from household
consumers to commercial and industrial end users and original equipment
manufacturers.  Electrical distribution and control equipment is sold for
installation in commercial, industrial and residential facilities.  GE
Electrical Distribution and Control (ED&C) and Honeywell's MICRO SWITCH
division formed a venture, GE/MICRO SWITCH Controls, Inc., during 1992
through which both businesses jointly sell and distribute complementary
factory control products in the United States.  European operations were
expanded with the 1989 establishment of a joint venture, Power Controls
B.V. (formerly Eurolec).  To bolster European market share and global
competitiveness, GE signed a letter of intent in 1993 under which Power
Controls will acquire a majority interest in the low-voltage business of
Germany's AEG.  Power Controls had acquired both Lemag and Agut S.A. of
Spain during 1992, enhancing product offerings in residential distribution
and industrial control markets.  Transportation systems include diesel-
electric and electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motors for
drilling devices and motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles such as
those used in mining operations.  Locomotives are sold worldwide,
principally to railroads, while markets for other products include state
and urban transit authorities and industrial users.  Motors and motor-
related products serve the appliance, commercial, industrial, heating, air
conditioning and automotive markets.  Motor products are used within GE and
also are sold externally.  Industrial automation products cover a broad
range of electrical and electronic products with emphasis on manufacturing
and advanced engineering automation applications.  (See the discussion of
GE Fanuc on the following page.)  GE Supply operates a U.S. network of
electrical supply houses and through its subsidiary, GE Supply Mexico,
operates three supply houses in Mexico.

      Markets for industrial products generally lag overall economic
slowdowns as well as subsequent recoveries.  U.S. industrial markets are
undergoing significant structural changes reflecting, among other factors,
international competition and pressures to modernize productive capacity.
Additional information about certain of GE's industrial businesses follows.

      Competition for lighting products comes from a relatively small number
of major firms and is based principally on price, distribution and product
innovation.  The nature of lighting products and market diversity make the
lighting business somewhat less sensitive to economic cycles than other
businesses in this segment.

      Electrical distribution and control equipment is sold to distributors,
electrical contractors, large industrial users, and original equipment
manufacturers.  Markets are affected principally by levels of (and cycles in)
residential and non-residential construction as well as domestic industrial
plant and equipment expenditures.  Competitors include

                                      (7)
                                       
<PAGE>

other large manufacturers, with international competition in U.S. markets
increasing.  GE Supply offers products of General Electric and other
manufacturers to electrical contractors and industrial, commercial, and
utility customers.

      In transportation systems, demand is historically cyclical.  There is
strong worldwide competition from major firms for transportation equipment.

      External sales of motors and related products are principally to
manufacturers of original equipment, distributors, and industrial users.
Competition includes other motor and component producers, integrated
manufacturers, and customers' own in-house capability.  Markets for these
products are price competitive, putting emphasis on economies of scale and
manufacturing technology.  Other market factors include energy-driven
technology changes and the cyclical nature of the consumer end-user market.

      Through a 50-50 joint venture (GE Fanuc Automation Corporation) which
has two operating subsidiaries (one in North America and the other in Europe),
GE offers a wide range of high-technology industrial automation systems and
equipment, including computer numerical controls and programmable logic
controls.  Competition in industrial automation is intense and comes from a
number of U.S. and international sources.

Materials

      Materials (8.3%, 8.5% and 8.7% of consolidated revenues in 1993, 1992
and 1991, respectively) includes high-performance engineered plastics used in
applications such as substitutes for metal and glass in automobiles, and as
housings for computers and other business equipment; silicones; superabrasives
such as man-made diamonds; and laminates.  Materials also includes ABS resins,
a family of thermoplastic resins used by custom molders and major original
equipment manufacturers for use in a variety of applications, including
fabrication of automotive parts, computer enclosures, major appliance parts
and construction materials.  Market opportunities for many of these products
are created by functional replacement which provides customers with an
improved material at lower cost.  These materials are sold to a diverse
worldwide customer base (mainly manufacturers).  Materials has a significant
operating presence around the world and participates in numerous manufacturing
and distribution joint ventures.

      The business is characterized by technological innovation and heavy
capital investment.  Being competitive requires a strong emphasis on efficient
manufacturing process implementation and strong market and application
development.  Competitors include large, technically oriented suppliers of the
same, as well as functionally equivalent, materials.  Adequate capacity to
satisfy demand and anticipation of new product or material performance
requirements are key factors affecting this competition.  The business is
cyclical and, during periods of economic slowdown is subject to pricing
pressures from competitors because of, among other things, industry excess
capacity.

      Materials also included Ladd Petroleum Corporation, an oil and natural
gas developer and supplier with operations mainly in the United States, until
December 21, 1990, when it was sold to Amax Oil and Gas, Inc., a subsidiary of
Amax, Inc.

                                      (8)
                                       
<PAGE>

Power Systems

      Power Systems (11.0%, 11.2% and 11.3% of consolidated revenues in 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively) serves utility, industrial and governmental
customers worldwide with products for the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity, and with related installation, engineering and
repair services.  Worldwide competition continues to be intense.  For
information about current developments, and orders and backlogs, see pages 34
and 36 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners.  Steam turbine-generators
are sold to the electric utility industry, to the U.S. Navy and, for
cogeneration, to private industrial customers.  Marine steam turbines and
propulsion gears also are sold to the U.S. Navy.  Gas turbines, which for the
past several years has been the fastest growing part of this segment, are used
principally as packaged power plants for electric utilities, and for
industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications.  Through a joint
venture with GEC Alsthom of France, GE has access to the European gas turbine
market.  Centrifugal compressors are sold for application in gas reinjection,
pipeline services and such process applications as refineries and ammonia
plants.  In 1993 an agreement was reached by a GE-led consortium including
Dresser Industries and Ingersoll Rand to acquire 69% of Nuovo Pignone, an
Italian electrical equipment maker.  This move further strengthens the
Company's position in Europe, North Africa, the Middle East and Asia, and
particularly in Russia, where Nuovo Pignone recently received commitments for
$1.6 billion in pipeline equipment.  There have been no nuclear plant orders
in the United States since the mid-1970s and international activity has been
very low.  GE continues to invest in advanced technology development and to
focus its resources on refueling and servicing its installed boiling-water
reactors.  Power delivery products include transformers, electricity meters,
relays, capacitors and arresters, principally for electric utilities, and
drive systems for industrial applications.  Installation, engineering and
repair services include management and technical expertise for large projects,
such as power plants; maintenance, inspection, repair and rebuilding of
electrical apparatus produced by GE and others; on-site engineering and
upgrading of already installed products sold by GE and others; and
environmental systems for utilities.

      Products and services differ in contribution to sales and earnings,
market position and production cycle.  No "similar" class of products or
services within the segment approached 10% of any year's consolidated revenues
during the three years ended December 31, 1993.  As discussed in the previous
paragraph, there is intense worldwide competition for power systems products
and services.  The markets for most power systems products and services are
worldwide and as a result are sensitive to the economic and political
environment of each country in which the business participates.  In the United
States many power systems markets are sensitive to the financial condition of
the electric utility industry as well as the electric power conservation
efforts by power users.  Internationally, the influence of oil prices on a
country's economy has a large impact on its markets.  GE's drive systems
business is a leading supplier of customized controls and drives for metal and
paper processing, for mining, for utilities and for marine applications.
Competition in drive systems comes from a variety of businesses throughout the
world.

                                      (9)
                                       
<PAGE>

Technical Products and Services

      Technical products and services (6.9%, 8.2% and 8.6% of consolidated
revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively) consists of technology
operations providing products, systems and services to a variety of customers.
Businesses in this segment include medical systems and services,
communications and information services and certain other specialized
services.  Medical systems include magnetic resonance (MR) scanners, computed
tomography (CT) scanners, x-ray, nuclear imaging, ultrasound, and other
diagnostic equipment and supporting services sold to hospitals and medical
facilities worldwide.  Medical Systems has a significant operating presence in
Europe and Asia, including the operations of its affiliates GE CGR (France),
Yokogawa Medical Systems (Japan) and WIPRO GE Medical Systems (India).
Acquisitions and joint ventures continue to expand GE's medical systems
activities in world markets.  Continued globalization increased Medical
Systems' presence in Asia during 1993, where it purchased an x-ray
manufacturer in Japan, announced plans to enlarge manufacturing facilities in
China, and established new sales and service joint ventures in Taiwan and
Thailand.  Additionally, its presence continued to expand in Latin America
with new facilities in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.  Information services are
provided both to internal and external customers by GE Information Services
(GEIS).  These include enhanced computer-based communications services, such
as data network services, electronic messaging and electronic data
interchange, which are offered to commercial and industrial customers through
a worldwide network; application software packaging; and custom system design
and programming services.  During 1993, the Company signed an agreement under
which Ameritech Corporation, a leading telecommunications company, will invest
$472 million in GEIS that will convert, when U.S. law permits, to a 30% equity
position in that business.  GEIS also acquired International Network Services,
Ltd. in 1993, a leading European supplier of electronic data interchange
services and software.  GE's mobile communications business (primarily mobile
radios) was placed into a joint venture with Ericsson of Sweden's digital
cellular technology in 1989.  The venture was realigned in 1992 so that GE now
holds preferred stock.  Principal competition is from well-established
manufacturers.  This segment included GE Americom and GE Computer Services
until they were transferred to GE Capital Corporation at the end of 1989 and
mid-1992, respectively.  See page 12 for further information.  GE Consulting
Services (custom system design and programming services) was sold to Keane,
Inc. on January 1, 1993.

      Serving a diversity of customers for special needs (which are rapidly
changing in certain areas such as medical and information systems), businesses
in this segment compete against a variety of both U.S. and non-U.S.
manufacturers or service operations including, in certain situations, customer
in-house capability.  Technological competence and innovation, excellence of
design, high product performance, quality of service, and competitive pricing
are among the key factors affecting competition in the markets for these
products and services.  Throughout the world, demands on health care providers
to control costs have become much more important.  Medical Systems is
responding with cost-effective technologies that improve operating efficiency
and clinical productivity.  See page 36 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share
Owners for information about orders and backlog of Medical Systems' products.

                                     (10)
                                       
<PAGE>

All Other GE

      All Other GE consists mostly of earnings of and investment in General
Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS), a wholly owned consolidated affiliate,
which are accounted for on a one-line basis in accordance with the equity
method of accounting but are eliminated in consolidation.  Other ongoing
operations (0.4%, 0.4% and 0.5% of consolidated revenues in 1993, 1992 and
1991, respectively) mainly involve licensing the use of GE's know-how and
patents to others.  A separate discussion of segments within GECS appears
below.

GECS Segments

      The business of GECS consists of the ownership of three principal
affiliates that, together with their affiliates and other investments,
constitute General Electric Company's principal financial services activities.
GECS owns all of the common stock of General Electric Capital Corporation (GE
Capital or GECC), Employers Reinsurance Corporation (ERC) and Kidder, Peabody
Group Inc. (Kidder, Peabody).  Prior to August 10, 1990, twenty percent of
Kidder, Peabody had been owned by or on behalf of certain Kidder, Peabody
officers.

      For industry segment purposes, Financing (20.5%, 18.5% and 18.4% of
consolidated revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively) consists solely of
noninsurance activities of GE Capital; Specialty Insurance (8.0%, 6.8% and
5.5% of consolidated revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively) consists
of the activities of ERC as well as the activities of insurance entities owned
by GE Capital; Securities Broker-Dealer (8.0%, 7.0% an 6.1% of consolidated
revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively) consists entirely of Kidder,
Peabody's operations; and All Other is GECS corporate activities not
identifiable with specific industry segments.

      Additional information follows.

      Financing activities of GE Capital, none of which individually
constitutes as much as 10% of consolidated revenues, comprise the following:

      *     Consumer services - private-label and bank credit card loans, time
            sales and revolving credit and inventory financing for retail
            merchants, auto leasing and inventory financing and mortgage
            servicing, and annuities;
            
      *     Specialized financing - loans and financing leases for major
            capital assets, including aircraft, industrial facilities and
            equipment and energy-related facilities; commercial and
            residential real estate loans and investments; and loans to and
            investments in highly leveraged management buyouts and corporate
            recapitalizations;
            
      *     Equipment management - leases, loans and asset management services
            for portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment,
            including aircraft, trailers, auto fleets, modular space units,
            railroad rolling stock, data processing equipment, satellites and
            ocean-going containers; and
            
                                     (11)
                                       
<PAGE>

      *     Mid-market financing - loans and financing and operating leases
            for middle-market customers, including manufacturers, distributors
            and end users, for a variety of equipment, including data
            processing equipment, medical and diagnostic equipment, and
            equipment used in construction, manufacturing, office applications
            and telecommunications activities.
            
Very little of the financing by GE Capital involves products that are
manufactured by GE.  Beginning in 1990, this segment includes GE Americom, a
leading U.S. satellite carrier.  Beginning in the second half of 1992, the
segment also includes GE Computer Services, which provides independent
maintenance and rental/leasing services for minicomputers and microcomputers,
electronic test instruments and data communications equipment.  These
components had been included in GE's Technical Products and Services segment
prior to their transfer to the Financing segment. GE Capital also is an equity
investor in a retail organization and certain other service and financial
services organizations.  GE Capital continues to experience broad growth.  In
1993 its Consumer services operations acquired GNA Corporation from
Weyerhauser Company and Weyerhauser Financial Services, Inc. and United
Pacific Life Insurance Company from Reliance Insurance Company and its parent,
Reliance Group Holdings, Inc.  Together these two acquisitions constitute
GECS' annuity business, a business that writes and markets tax-deferred
annuities and sells proprietary and third-party mutual funds through
independent agents and financial institutions.  Other 1993 acquisitions
expanded GECS' financial services activities in Europe, Scandinavia and
Canada.  GE Capital had previously increased its presence in Europe with the
1992 acquisition of Avis Europe's vehicle leasing and fleet management
business, following 1991 and 1990 acquisitions of private-label credit card
operations of major U.K. retailers.

      GE Capital's activities are subject to a variety of federal and state
regulations including, at the federal level, the Consumer Credit Protection
Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and certain regulations issued by the
Federal Trade Commission.  A majority of states have ceilings on rates
chargeable to customers in retail time sales transactions, installment loans
and revolving credit financing.  GECS' international operations are also
subject to regulation in their respective jurisdictions.  To date such
regulations have not had a material adverse effect on GE Capital's volume of
financing operations or profitability.  Common carrier services of GE Americom
are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission.

      On March 28, 1991, GE entered into an agreement to make payments to GE
Capital, constituting additions to pre-tax income, to the extent necessary to
cause the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GE Capital and consolidated
affiliates (determined on a consolidated basis) to be not less than 1.10 for
the period, as a single aggregation, of each GE Capital fiscal year commencing
with fiscal year 1991.  The agreement can only be terminated by written notice
and termination is not effective until the third anniversary of the date of
such notice.  GE Capital's ratios of earnings to fixed charges for the years
1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively, were 1.62, 1.44 and 1.34, substantially
above the level at which payments would be required.

      Specialty Insurance includes ERC, a multiple line property and casualty
reinsurer that writes all lines of reinsurance other than title and annuities
and other insurance activities of GE Capital.  ERC reinsures

                                     (12)
                                       
<PAGE>

property and casualty risks written by more than 1,000 U.S. and non-U.S.
insurers, and has subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom and Denmark.  By
means of other subsidiaries ERC writes property and casualty reinsurance
through brokers and provides reinsurance brokerage services.  ERC also writes
certain specialty lines of insurance on a direct basis, principally excess
workers' compensation for self-insurers, libel and allied torts and errors and
omissions coverage for insurance agents and brokers.  It is licensed in all
states of the United States, the District of Columbia, certain provinces of
Canada and in other jurisdictions.  The other insurance activities of GECS
consist of GE Capital affiliates that provide various forms of insurance.
Financial Guaranty Insurance Company provides financial guaranty insurance,
principally on municipal bonds and structured finance issues.  GE Capital's
mortgage insurance operations are engaged primarily in providing private
mortgage insurance.  Other affiliates provide life reinsurance, creditor
insurance for international retail borrowers and, for GE Capital customers,
credit life and certain types of property and casualty insurance.  Businesses
in the Specialty Insurance segment are generally subject to regulation by
various insurance regulatory agencies.

      Securities Broker-Dealer represents Kidder, Peabody, which is a full-
service investment bank and securities broker.  Principal businesses include
securities underwriting; sales and trading of equity and fixed income
securities; financial futures activities; advisory services for mergers,
acquisitions and other corporate finance matters; merchant banking; research
services; and asset management.  These services are provided in the United
States and internationally to business entities, governments, government
agencies, and individual and institutional investors.  Kidder, Peabody is a
member of the principal securities and commodities exchanges and is a primary
dealer in U.S. government securities.  Kidder, Peabody and its affiliates are
subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, state and industry
regulatory agencies that apply to securities broker-dealers, including the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, New York Stock Exchange, National Association of Securities
Dealers and the Chicago Board of Trade, as well as various international
regulatory agencies.

Geographic Segments, Exports from the U.S. and Total International Operations

      Financial data for geographic segments (based on the location of the
Company operation supplying goods or services and including exports from the
U.S. to unaffiliated customers) are reported in note 30 to consolidated
financial statements on page 62 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners.

      Additional financial data about GE's exports from the U.S. and total
international operations are on page 38 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share
Owners.

Orders Backlog

      See pages 34, 36 and 42 of the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners for
information about GE's backlog of unfilled orders.

                                     (13)
                                       
<PAGE>

Research and Development

      Total expenditures for research and development were $1,955 million in
1993.  Total expenditures had been $1,896 million in 1992 and $1,866 million
in 1991.  Of these amounts, $1,297 million in 1993 was GE-funded ($1,353
million in 1992 and $1,196 million in 1991) and $658 million in 1993 ($543
million in 1992 and $670 million in 1991) was funded by others, principally
the U.S. government.  Aircraft Engines accounts for the largest share of GE's
R&D expenditures from both Company and customer funds.  Other significant
expenditures of Company and customer research and development funds were for
Medical Systems, Plastics and Power Systems.

      Approximately 9,100 person-years of scientist and engineering effort
were devoted to research and development activities in 1993 with about 73% of
the time involved primarily in GE-funded activities.

Environmental Matters

      See page 42 of GE's 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners for a discussion
of environmental matters.

Employee Relations

      At year-end 1993, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
employed 222,000 persons, of whom approximately 163,000 were in the United
States.  For further information about employees, see page 43 of the 1993
Annual Report to Share Owners.

      Approximately 44,250 GE manufacturing, engineering and service employees
in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a
total of approximately 150 different local collective bargaining groups.  A
majority of such employees is represented by union locals which are affiliated
with, and bargain in conjunction with, the International Union of Electronic,
Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers (AFL-CIO).  During 1991,
General Electric Company negotiated three-year contracts with unions
representing a substantial majority of those United States employees who are
represented by unions.  Most of these contracts will terminate in June 1994.
NBC is party to approximately 100 labor agreements covering about 2,000 staff
employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States.
These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates, and
are generally for a term of three to four years.  Contracts covering a
majority of NBC's staff employees will expire at different times during 1994.

Executive Officers

      See Part III, Item 10 of this 10-K Report for information about
Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Other

      Because of the diversity of the Company's products and services, as well
as the wide geographic dispersion of its productive facilities, the Company
uses numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for its
operations.  The Company has not been adversely affected by inability to
obtain raw materials.

                                     (14)
                                       
<PAGE>

      The Company owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous patents.  New
patents are continually being obtained through the Company's research and
development activities as existing patents expire.  Patented inventions are
used both within the Company and licensed to others, but no industry segment
is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.

      About 5% of consolidated revenues in 1993 (7% of GE revenues) were from
sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. government, which is the
Company's largest single customer.  About 4% of consolidated revenues in 1993
(6% of GE revenues) were defense-related sales of aircraft engine goods and
services.

      About 6% of consolidated revenues in 1992 (8% of GE revenues) were from
sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. government.  About 4% of
consolidated revenues in 1992 (6% of GE revenues) were defense-related sales
of aircraft engine goods and services.

      In 1991, about 7% of consolidated revenues (10% of GE revenues) were
from sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. government.
Approximately 5% of consolidated revenues (7% of GE revenues) were defense-
related sales of aircraft engine goods and services.

Item 2.  Properties

      Manufacturing operations are carried on at approximately 146
manufacturing plants located in 30 states in the United States and Puerto Rico
and some 114 manufacturing plants located in 24 other countries.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

General
- -------

      As previously reported, on August 21, 1991, a suit was filed against the
Company in Federal District Court for the Northern District of Ohio by
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and four other utilities which own the
Perry nuclear power plant.  The suit related to the contract under which the
Company furnished the nuclear steam supply system and related equipment and
services for the Perry plant.  It sought to recover unspecified damages
related to the modification of the containment system and alleged breach of
contract, fraud, negligence, deceptive practices, and violations of the
federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and similar state
statutes.  On January 28, 1994, the Company reached a settlement with the
plaintiffs and the case was dismissed.  Under the terms of the settlement,
over a period of years, the Company will provide discounts on certain future
purchases and make cash payments to the plaintiffs.

      Also as previously reported, on April 24, 1991, Philip M. Stern, a
Company shareholder, served an amended complaint naming the directors (other
than Messrs. Atwater, Calloway, Fresco, Gonzalez, Jones and Warner) as
defendants in a civil suit brought purportedly on behalf of the Company as a
shareholder derivative action (the Stern action) in the U.S. District Court in
New York City. The amended complaint relates to the Non-Partisan Political
Support Committee For General Electric Company Employees (PAC)

                                     (15)
                                       
<PAGE>

and alleges that it was a waste of corporate assets to provide Company funds
to establish and operate the PAC for GE employees because the PAC is allegedly
used to attempt to buy favor and influence with incumbent members of Congress
and because solicitation and administration costs were allegedly excessive. In
related proceedings, the Federal Elections Commission and two federal courts
held that the political contributions made by the PAC were lawful and proper
under federal election law.  The complaint includes allegations of bad faith,
fraud, negligence and breach of fiduciary duty under state law and seeks to
require the defendants to pay to the Company all amounts spent by the Company
to establish, administer and maintain the PAC as well as punitive damages.  On
March 12, 1992, the plaintiff filed a motion to amend the complaint to add a
claim that the defendants allegedly violated the Federal Regulation of
Lobbying Act, and thereby breached their fiduciary duty to shareholders by
failing to report lobbying expenses as required by that statute.  On June 2,
1992, plaintiff's motion was denied.  On September 4, 1992, Henry D. Sedgwick
Stern and Walter B. Slocombe, Personal Representatives of the Estate of Philip
M. Stern, were substituted as the plaintiffs in this case, following the death
of Philip Stern.  On November 16, 1993, the court granted summary judgment for
all defendants on all claims.  Plaintiffs have appealed, and that appeal is
pending.  The defendants believe that the appeal is without merit.

      As previously reported, the directors (other than Messrs. Calloway,
Gonzalez and Warner) and certain officers are defendants in a civil suit
purportedly brought on behalf of the Company as a shareholder derivative
action by Leslie McNeil, Harold Sachs, Arun Shingala and Paul and Harriet Luts
(the McNeil action) in New York State Supreme Court on November 19, 1991. The
suit alleges the Company was negligent and engaged in fraud in connection with
the design and construction of containment systems for nuclear power plants
and contends that, as a result, GE has incurred significant financial
liabilities and is potentially exposed to additional liabilities from claims
brought by the Company's customers. The suit alleges breach of fiduciary duty
by the defendants and seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other relief.
The defendants believe these claims are without merit.  On March 31, 1992, the
defendants filed motions to dismiss the suit.  On September 28, 1992, the
court denied the motions as premature but ruled that they may be renewed after
the completion of limited discovery.  Defendants moved for reconsideration of
that order, and on April 3, 1993, the court granted defendants' motion for
reconsideration and directed that discovery be stayed pending the filing of an
amended complaint.

      As previously reported, on September 15, 1992, Evelyn Benfield filed a
shareholder derivative action in U.S. District Court in Cincinnati, Ohio
purportedly on behalf of the Company, seeking compensatory damages and
equitable relief arising out of the alleged failure to implement effective
internal controls to prevent government contract fraud.  The complaint names
as defendants all of the current directors (except Messrs. Gonzalez and
Warner), certain former directors, a former officer, and a former employee of
the Company.  Plaintiff claims, in substance, that various defendants breached
their fiduciary duties to the Company under state law by either participating
in or failing to prevent government contract fraud.  Plaintiff's claims are
based primarily upon the fact that, in July 1992, the Company pled guilty to
four federal felony counts and settled a related federal False Claims Act
civil suit, all of which were related to diversions of funds in connection
with the Company's sale of military

                                     (16)
                                       
<PAGE>

aircraft engines to Israel.  The Company paid a fine of $9.5 million and
simultaneously agreed to pay $59.5 million to settle the False Claims Act
suit.  On December 3, 1993, the court approved a settlement of the derivative
action. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company will receive a payment
of $19.5 million from an insurance policy it maintains to cover officers'
liability, less plaintiff's counsel fees and expenses awarded by the court.
The defendants have denied all allegations of wrongdoing, and all parties to
the action have agreed that the settlement is premised upon the litigation
risks associated with the claims that a single former officer non-willfully
failed to implement effectively the Company's compliance policies and
procedures. In agreeing to resolve this matter, plaintiff did not contest the
director-defendants' position that they had lawfully discharged their duties
to GE and that the Company, at all relevant times, has had in existence
detailed plans and procedures designed to promote and enforce compliance with
relevant laws. One share owner has appealed the District Court's order
approving the settlement. The defendants believe the appeal is without merit.

      The directors and certain former directors are defendants in a civil
suit purportedly brought on behalf of the Company as a share owner derivative
action (the Bildstein action) which was commenced in New York State Supreme
Court in January 1994. The suit seeks compensatory damages arising out of the
purported failure of the defendants to prevent alleged government contract
fraud and alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in
connection with U.S. government-funded sales of military equipment to Egypt by
a unit of the Company's former GE Aerospace component. GE Aerospace was
transferred to a new corporation controlled by the stockholders of Martin
Marietta Corporation in 1993. The suit claims that the risk of litigation
arising from the alleged wrongdoing caused the Company to receive less than it
would have otherwise received in connection with the transfer of GE Aerospace.
The suit is in an early stage and the Company plans to move to dismiss the
complaint based on the plaintiff's failure to make a pre-litigation demand,
among other reasons.

      As previously reported, on March 12, 1993, a complaint was filed in
United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by ten
employees of the Company's Aerospace business, purportedly on behalf of all
GE Aerospace employees whose GE employment status is or was affected by the
then planned transfer of GE Aerospace to a new company controlled by the
stockholders of Martin Marietta.  The complaint sought to clarify and
enforce the plaintiff's claimed rights to pension benefits in accordance
with, and rights to assets then held in, the GE Pension Plan (the "Plan").
The complaint names the Company, the trustees of the GE Pension Trust
("Trust"), and Martin Marietta Corporation and one of its former plan
administrators as defendants.  The complaint alleged that the Company's
planned transfer of certain assets of the Trust to a Martin Marietta
pension trust, in connection with the transfer of the Aerospace business,
violated the rights of the plaintiffs under the Plan and applicable
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the
Internal Revenue Code.  The complaint sought equitable and declaratory
relief, including an injunction against transfer of the Plan assets except
under circumstances and protections, if any, approved by the court, an
order that the Company disgorge all profits allegedly received by it as a
result of any such transfer and the making of restitution to the Trust for
alleged investment losses resulting from the Company's treatment of Plan
assets in connection with the transaction or alternatively the transfer of
additional assets from the

                                     (17)
                                       
<PAGE>

Trust to a new Martin Marietta pension trust, and an order requiring Martin
Marietta to continue to offer transferred employees all accrued pension-
related benefits for which they were eligible under the Plan as of the
closing date of the transfer of the GE Aerospace business to Martin
Marietta.

      On March 23, 1993, the Company and Martin Marietta Corporation filed
motions to dismiss the complaint on the basis that the complaint does not
state any claim upon which relief can be granted as a matter of law.  This
motion remains pending.  On April 2, 1993, the transfer of the Aerospace
business occurred, and on June 7, 1993, the court issued an order denying
plaintiffs' request for injunctive relief.

      As previously reported, allegations of various federal law violations,
including alleged antitrust violations involving the Company and DeBeers
Consolidated Mines, Ltd. in the industrial diamonds industry, were made in a
wrongful termination action brought by a former vice president of the Company.
Various allegations of antitrust violations concerning industrial diamonds are
also the subject of two previously reported civil suits against the Company
purportedly brought on behalf of classes of industrial diamond purchasers and
an additional civil suit against the Company brought on behalf of two
corporations engaged in the manufacture and sale of industrial diamonds.  On
February 16, 1994, the wrongful termination action was dismissed with
prejudice and the former officer filed a sworn statement conceding that he had
no personal knowledge of any wrongdoing by Company personnel and that he had
become aware that the Company had removed him based on its view of his
performance, not because he was a "whistleblower."  On February 17, 1994, an
indictment was returned in the United States District Court in Columbus, Ohio,
following the previously reported grand jury investigation by the United
States Department of Justice, charging the Company and one European employee
of the Company's superabrasives business, and other unrelated parties, with
entering into an anti-competitive agreement in violation of federal antitrust
laws.  The Company denies the charges and intends to vigorously contest them.
It believes that none of these cases will have a material adverse effect on
the Company or its business.

Environmental
- -------------

      As previously reported, on May 12,1989, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency ("EPA") issued an administrative complaint against the
Company alleging violation of regulations issued by EPA under the Toxic
Substances Control Act ("TSCA") relating to disposal and processing of
polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs").  The complaint seeks civil penalties of
$225,000.  The Company filed an answer denying the alleged violations.  On
February 2, 1992, an administrative Law Judge issued a decision assessing a
$40,000 penalty.  EPA's Appeals Board lowered the penalty to $25,000.  The
Company has filed an appeal.

      Also as previously reported, on February 12, 1990, EPA issued an
administrative complaint against the Company alleging violations of
regulations promulgated by EPA under TSCA relating to disposal and storage of
PCBs.  The complaint sought a civil penalty of $205,500.  EPA has subsequently
issued an amended complaint adding additional allegations of unlawful use of
PCBs, bringing the total civil penalty sought to $365,500.

                                     (18)
                                       
<PAGE>

The Company has filed answers denying all alleged violations and settlement
discussions are underway.  This case presents the same issues as the case
discussed in the preceding paragraph.

      As previously reported, EPA has filed five administrative complaints
against GE alleging that GE's use of a system developed by GE for cleaning
PCBs from electrical equipment violated a requirement of TSCA that such
systems be authorized by an EPA permit.  Three of the complaints include
counts relating to other alleged violations of EPA regulations applicable to
handling and storage of PCBs.  The GE facilities which received the
administrative complaints, the dates the complaints were filed, and the
amounts of civil penalties sought are as follows:  Houston Apparatus Service
Center, September 15, 1990, $185,000; Philadelphia Apparatus Service Center,
September 20, 1990, $772,000; Cleveland Apparatus Service Center,
September 25, 1990, $968,000; Chicago Apparatus Service Center, September 25,
1990, $1,107,925; Cincinnati Apparatus Service Center, September 25, 1990,
$1,023,750.  The Company has filed an answer denying the alleged violations
and settlement discussions are underway.  These cases present the same issues
as the cases discussed in the preceding two paragraphs of this environmental
section.

      As previously reported, in June of 1992, EPA issued an administrative
complaint against the Company alleging violations of regulations issued under
TSCA at its Anaheim facility, including improper storage and disposal of PCBs.
The complaint sought penalties of $205,000.  On March 9, 1993, EPA amended the
complaint to increase the amount of the penalties being sought to $353,000.
Settlement discussions are underway.

      As previously reported, in  June of 1992, the State of New York issued a
complaint alleging violations of the state Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act
(unpermitted emissions and discharges in excess of permit limits) at the
Company's Schenectady facility.  The complaint seeks $1,039,435 in penalties.
Settlement discussions are underway.

      As previously reported, in November of 1992, the New Jersey Department
of Environmental Protection and Energy initiated a proceeding against the
Company seeking $142,000 in penalties for violations of the Clean Water Act at
the Camden facility, including permit violations.  The matter was settled in
December 1993 for $88,310.

      As previously reported, in January of 1993, the State of Indiana
notified the Company that it would be seeking penalties for violations of the
state Clean Air Act for failing to install required control equipment at its
Ft. Wayne facility.  In July of 1993 the state issued a penalty demand of
$150,000.  Settlement discussions are underway.

      As previously reported, in September of 1993, EPA notified the
Company that it was seeking at least $600,000 in penalties for alleged
violations of the Clean Air Act at its Lynn, Massachusetts Aircraft Engines
facility.  The allegations include the failure to undergo required permit
reviews.  The Company has supplied information to the Agency, and is
conducting ongoing settlement discussions.

      In February of 1994, EPA issued a simultaneous administrative
complaint and consent agreement addressing violations at the Company's Mt.
Vernon, Indiana facility, which included violations of permitted

                                     (19)
                                       
<PAGE>

conditions for a boiler/industrial furnace burning hazardous waste.  The
matter was resolved in February for a penalty of $450,000.

      In March of 1994, EPA issued an administrative complaint against the
Company seeking $125,000 in penalties for violations of the Clean Water Act
at its Palmer, Puerto Rico facility, including permit violations.


- -------------------------------
      It is the view of management that none of the above described
proceedings will have a material effect upon the Company's earnings, liquidity
or competitive position.

      For further information regarding environmental matters, see page 14 of
this Report.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      Not applicable.

                                    PART II
                                       
Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
         Matters
         
      With respect to "Stock Exchange Information", in the United States,
GE common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (its principal
market) and on the Boston Stock Exchange.  GE common stock also is listed
on certain foreign exchanges, including The Stock Exchange, London and the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Trading, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc., Composite Transactions Tape, and dividend information follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Common stock market price
                                   -------------------------   Dividends
(In dollars)                          High            Low       declared
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>           <C>
1993
      Fourth quarter              $107            $92 3/4           $.72
      Third quarter                100 7/8         94 1/2            .63
      Second quarter                96 3/8         88 1/4            .63
      First quarter                 91             80 7/8            .63
1992
      Fourth quarter                87 1/2         73 1/8            .63
      Third quarter                 79 3/4         73                .59
      Second quarter                79 5/8         72 3/4            .55
      First quarter                 80 3/4         73 5/8            .55

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      As of December 31, 1993, there were about 457,000 share owner
accounts of record.

                                     (20)
                                       
<PAGE>

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

      Reported as data for revenues; earnings from continuing operations,
earnings from continuing operations per share; earnings from discontinued
operations, earnings before accounting changes; net earnings; net earnings
per share; dividends declared per share; long-term borrowings; and total
assets appearing on page 43 of the Annual Report to Share Owners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations
         
      Reported on pages 32-43 (and graphs on pages 25, 32, 33, 37, 38, 39,
40, 41 and 42) of the Annual Report to Share Owners for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1993.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      See index under item 14.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure
         
      Not applicable.





                                     (21)
                                       
<PAGE>

                                   PART III
                                       
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant

Executive Officers of the Registrant (As of March 11, 1994)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Date assumed
                                                                            Executive Officer
Name                       Position                                    Age       position
- ----                       --------                                    ---   ----------------
<S>                        <C>                                          <C>   <C>
John F. Welch, Jr.         Chairman of the Board and Chief
                               Executive Officer                        58    April 1981
James R. Bunt              Vice President and Treasurer                 52    January 1993
William J. Conaty          Senior Vice President, Human Resources       48    October 1993
Dennis D. Dammerman        Senior Vice President, Finance               48    March 1984
Frank P. Doyle             Executive Vice President                     63    September 1981
Lewis S. Edelheit          Senior Vice President, Research and
                               Development                              51    November 1992
Paolo Fresco               Vice Chairman and Executive Officer          60    October 1987
Dale F. Frey               Vice President and President, GE Investment
                               Corporation                              61    January 1993
David C. Genever-Watling   Senior Vice President, GE Industrial
                               and Power Systems                        48    September 1990
Benjamin W. Heineman, Jr.  Senior Vice President, General Counsel
                               and Secretary                            50    September 1987
W. James McNerney, Jr.     Senior Vice President, GE Asia-Pacific       44    January 1992
Eugene F. Murphy           Senior Vice President, GE Aircraft Engines   58    October 1986
Robert L. Nardelli         Vice President, GE Transportation Systems    45    February 1992
Robert W. Nelson           Vice President, Financial Planning
                               and Analysis                             53    September 1991
John D. Opie               Senior Vice President, GE Lighting           56    August 1986
Gary M. Reiner             Vice President - Business Development        39    January 1991
Gary L. Rogers             Senior Vice President, GE Plastics           49    December 1989
James W. Rogers            Vice President, GE Motors                    43    May 1991
Brian H. Rowe              Chairman, GE Aircraft Engines                62    October 1979
Hellene S. Runtagh         Vice President, GE Information Services      45    March 1992
J. Richard Stonesifer      Senior Vice President, GE Appliances         57    January 1992
John M. Trani              Senior Vice President, GE Medical Systems    48    September 1986
Lloyd G. Trotter           Vice President, GE Electrical Distribution
                               and Control                              48    November 1992
</TABLE>

      All Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an
initial term which continues until the first Board meeting following the
next annual statutory meeting of share owners and thereafter are elected
for one-year terms or until their successors have been elected.

      All Executive Officers have been executives of GE for the last five
years except Robert L. Nardelli, Gary M. Reiner and Lewis S. Edelheit.  Mr.
Nardelli, who was an employee of GE from June 1971 through June 1988, was
Executive Vice President and General Manager of J. I. Case, a manufacturer
of construction equipment and farm machinery, from July 1988 to May 1991,
and thereafter President of Camco, a Canadian subsidiary of GE that
manufactures, distributes, sells and services appliances, until February
1992.  Mr. Reiner was a Vice President of Boston Consulting Group,
strategic planners and designers, prior to joining GE in 1991.  Dr.
Edelheit, who was an employee of GE from 1969 through 1985, was President
and CEO of Quantum Medical Systems, Inc. (Quantum) from 1986 to August
1991, and thereafter Manager - Electronic Systems Research Center, GE
Corporate Research and Development Laboratory, until November 1992.
Quantum is a venture capital-backed medical ultrasound company which was
acquired by Siemens A.G. in July 1990.

                                     (22)
                                       
<PAGE>

      The remaining information called for by this item is incorporated by
reference to "Election of Directors" in the definitive proxy statement
relating to the registrant's Annual Meeting of Share Owners to be held
April 27, 1994.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

      Incorporated by reference to "Board of Directors and Committees,"
"Summary Compensation Table," "Stock Appreciation Rights and Stock
Options," and "Retirement Benefits" in the definitive proxy statement
relating to the registrant's Annual Meeting of Share Owners to be held
April 27, 1994.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      Incorporated by reference to "Information relating to Directors,
Nominees and Executive Officers" in the registrant's definitive proxy
statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Share Owners to be held
April 27, 1994.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      Incorporated by reference to "Certain Transactions" in the
registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its Annual Meeting of
Share Owners to be held April 27, 1994.

                                    PART IV
                                       
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
         
   (a)1. Financial statements applicable to General Electric Company and
         consolidated affiliates and contained on the page(s) indicated in
         the GE Annual Report to Share Owners for the fiscal year ended
         December 31, 1993.
         
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Annual   10-K
                                                    Report   Report
                                                    Page(s)  Page(s)
                                                    -------  -------
         <S>                                        <C>      <C>
         Statement of earnings for the years
            ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991  26       F-2
         Statement of financial position at
            December 31, 1993 and 1992              28       F-4
         Statement of cash flows for the years
            ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991  30       F-6
         Independent Auditors' Report               44       F-20
         Other financial information:
            Notes to consolidated financial
            statements                              45-64    F-21 to F-40
            Industry segment information            33-38,   F-9 to F-14
                                                    60-61    F-36 to F-37
           Geographic segment information           62       F-38
           Operations by quarter (unaudited)        64       F-40
</TABLE>

   (a)2. Financial Statement Schedules for General Electric Company and
         consolidated affiliates.
         
                                     (23)
                                       
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         Schedule                                              Page
         --------                                              ----
         <S>   <C>                                             <C>
         II    Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and     F-41
               Underwriters, Promoters and Employees Other
               than Related Parties
         VIII  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts               F-42
         IX    Short-Term Borrowings                           F-43 to F-45
         X     Supplementary Income Statement Information      F-46

         </TABLE>
         The schedules listed in Reg. 210.5-04, except those listed above,
         have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required
         information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.
         
   (a)3. Exhibit Index
         
         (3)    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and By-
                laws, as amended, of General Electric Company. (i)
                
         (4)    Agreement to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission upon request a copy of instruments defining the
                rights of holders of certain long-term debt of the
                registrant and consolidated subsidiaries.*
                
         (10)   All of the following exhibits consist of Executive
                Compensation Plans or Arrangements:
                
                (a)   General Electric Incentive Compensation Plan as
                      amended effective July 1, 1991.(ii)
                      
                (b)   General Electric 1983 Stock Option-Performance Unit
                      Plan. (iii)
                      
                (c)   General Electric Supplementary Pension Plan as
                      amended effective July 1, 1991.(iv)
                      
                (d)   Amendment to General Electric Supplementary Pension
                      Plan dated May 22, 1992.(v)
                      
                (e)   Amendment to General Electric Supplementary Pension
                      Plan dated September 10, 1993.*
                      
                (f)   General Electric Deferred Compensation Plan for
                      Directors as amended May 25, 1990.(vi)
                      
                (g)   General Electric Insurance Plan for Directors.(vii)
                      
                (h)   General Electric Financial Planning Program, as
                      amended through September 1993.*
                      
                (i)   General Electric Supplemental Life Insurance
                      Program, as  amended February 8, 1991.(viii)
                      
                (j)   General Electric Directors' Retirement and Optional
                      Life Insurance Plan.(ix)
                      
                                     (24)
                                       
<PAGE>

                (k)   General Electric 1987 Executive Deferred Salary
                      Plan.(x)
                      
                (l)   General Electric 1989 Stock Option Plan for Non-
                      Employee Directors.(xi)
                      
                (m)   General Electric 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan.(xii)
                      
                (n)   General Electric 1991 Executive Deferred Salary
                      Plan. (xiii)
                      
                (o)   General Electric 1994 Executive Deferred Salary
                      Plan. *
                      
                (p)   General Electric Directors' Charitable Gift Plan, as
                      amended through May 1993. *
                      
                (q)   Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 2,
                      1992, and Restated U.K. Employment Agreement, dated
                      January 3, 1992, in each case between the registrant
                      and P. Fresco, an Executive Officer and Director of
                      the registrant.(xiv)
                      
                (r)   General Electric Leadership Life Insurance Program,
                      effective January 1, 1994. *
                      
         (11)   Statement re Compilation of Per Share Earnings.*
                
         (12)   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.*
                
         (21)   Subsidiaries of Registrant.*
                
         (23)   Consent of independent auditors incorporated by reference
                in each Prospectus constituting part of the Registration
                Statements on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-29024,
                33-3908, 2-82072, 33-37106, 33-35922, 33-44593, 33-39596,
                33-39596-01, 33-47181, 33-47085 and 33-50639) and on Form
                S-8 (Registration Nos. 33-4239, 33-23441,
                33-24679, 2-84145, 33-47500 and 33-49053).*
                
         (24)   Power of attorney.*
                
         (99)(a)Income Maintenance Agreement, dated March 28, 1991,
                between the registrant and General Electric Capital
                Corporation.(xv)
                
             (b)Undertaking for Inclusion in Registration Statements on
                Form S-8 of General Electric Company. (xvi)
                
Notes to Exhibits
- -----------------

      (i) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit of the same number to
General Electric Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number
1-35) for the quarter ended June 30, 1993.

                                     (25)
                                       
<PAGE>

      (ii) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit of the same number to
General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35)
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991.

      (iii) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit of the same number to
General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35)
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

      (iv) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1991.

      (v) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1992.

      (vi) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1990.

      (vii) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1980.

      (viii) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1990.

      (ix) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1986.

      (x) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1987.

      (xi) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the General Electric
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Share Owners held on April 26,
1989.

      (xii) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the General Electric
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Share Owners held April 25, 1990.

      (xiii) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1990.

      (xiv) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1992.

      (xv) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28(a) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1990.

                                     (26)
                                       
<PAGE>

      (xvi) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(b) to General Electric
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1992.

      * Filed electronically herewith.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K during the quarter ended December 31, 1993.

      There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the registrant during the
      fourth quarter of 1993.
      
                                  SIGNATURES
                                       
      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, and in the capacities indicated, thereunto duly
authorized in the Town of Fairfield and State of Connecticut on the 11th
day of March 1994.

                                          General Electric Company
                                                 (Registrant)



                                    By    Dennis D. Dammerman
                                          -----------------------------
                                          Senior Vice President-Finance
                                          (Principal Financial Officer)

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

      Signer                        Title                    Date
      ------                        -----                    ----

Dennis D. Dammerman
- ---------------------------
Senior Vice President-Finance       Principal Financial      March 11, 1994
                                        Officer

Philip D. Ameen
- ---------------------------
Comptroller                         Principal Accounting     March 11, 1994
                                        Officer

John F. Welch, Jr.*                  Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                        (Principal Executive Officer)

H. Brewster Atwater, Jr.*           Director
D. Wayne Calloway*                  Director
Silas S. Cathcart*                  Director
Lawrence E. Fouraker*               Director
Paolo Fresco*                       Director
Claudio X. Gonzalez*                Director
Henry H. Henley, Jr.*               Director
David C. Jones                      Director
Robert E. Mercer*                   Director
Gertrude G. Michelson*              Director
Barbara Scott Preiskel*             Director
Frank H. T. Rhodes*                 Director
Andrew C. Sigler*                   Director
Douglas A. Warner III*              Director

A majority of the Board of Directors

*By   Benjamin W. Heineman, Jr.
      --------------------------------
      Attorney-in-fact
      March 11, 1994

                                     (27)
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 25

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| FINANCIAL SECTION


 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| CONTENTS

Independent Auditors' Report                                          44
Audited Financial Statements
Earnings                                                              26
Financial Position                                                    28
Cash Flows                                                            30
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            45
Management's Discussion
Operations
   Consolidated Operations                                            32
   GE Operations                                                      33
      Industry Segments                                               33
   GECS Operations                                                    36
   International Operations                                           38
Financial Resources and Liquidity                                     39
Selected Financial Data                                               42
Financial Responsibility                                              44

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  REVENUES (In billions)
<CAPTION>
                               1989              1990              1991              1992               1993
                             <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
                            $49.135           $52.619           $54.629           $57.073            $60.562
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE ACCOUNTING CHANGES (In dollars)
<CAPTION>
                               1989              1990              1991              1992               1993
                               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
                               $4.36             $4.85             $5.10             $5.51             $6.06
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  DIVIDENDS PER SHARE (In dollars)
<CAPTION>
                               1989              1990              1991              1992               1993
                               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
                              $1.70             $1.92             $2.08             $2.32              $2.61
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                      F-1
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 26

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
|STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           General Electric Company
                                                                         and consolidated affiliates
                                                                     -----------------------------------
For the years ended December 31 (In millions)                            1993         1992          1991
- --------------------------------------------------------------       -----------------------------------
<S>                                                                   <C>          <C>            <C>
REVENUES
   Sales of goods                                                     $29,509      $29,575       $29,434
   Sales of services                                                    8,268        8,331         8,062
   Other income (note 3)                                                  735          799           792
   Earnings of GECS before accounting change                                -            -             -
   GECS revenues from operations (note 4)                              22,050       18,368        16,341
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
      Total revenues                                                   60,562       57,073        54,629
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
COSTS AND EXPENSES (note 5)
   Cost of goods sold                                                  22,606       22,107        21,498
   Cost of services sold                                                6,308        6,273         6,373
   Interest and other financial charges (note 7)                        6,989        6,860         7,401
   Insurance losses and policyholder and annuity benefits               3,172        1,957         1,623
   Provision for losses on financing receivables (note 8)                 987        1,056         1,102
   Other costs and expenses                                            13,774       12,494        10,834
   Minority interest in net earnings of consolidated
      affiliates                                                          151           53            72
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
      Total costs and expenses                                         53,987       50,800        48,903
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
   ACCOUNTING CHANGES                                                   6,575        6,273         5,726
Provision for income taxes (note 9)                                    (2,151)      (1,968)       (1,742)
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE ACCOUNTING CHANGES           4,424        4,305         3,984
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
   of $44, $248 and $259, respectively (note 2)                            75          420           451
Gain on transfer of discontinued operations, net
   of income taxes of $752                                                678            -             -
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
EARNINGS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS                                     753          420           451
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
EARNINGS BEFORE ACCOUNTING CHANGES                                      5,177        4,725         4,435
Cumulative effects of accounting changes (notes 6 and 22)                (862)           -        (1,799)
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
Net earnings                                                          $ 4,315      $ 4,725       $ 2,636
                                                                      =======      =======       =======
- --------------------------------------------------------------       -----------------------------------
NET EARNINGS PER SHARE (in dollars)
Continuing operations before accounting changes                       $  5.18      $  5.02       $  4.58
Discontinued operations before accounting changes                        0.88         0.49          0.52
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
Earnings before accounting changes                                       6.06         5.51          5.10
Cumulative effects of accounting changes                                (1.01)           -         (2.07)
                                                                      -------      -------       -------
Net earnings per share                                                  $5.05        $5.51         $3.03
                                                                      =======      =======       =======
- --------------------------------------------------------------      ------------------------------------
DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER SHARE (in dollars)                               $2.61        $2.32         $2.08
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
The notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 45-64 are an integral part of this statement.
</TABLE>

                                      F-2
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 27

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               GE                                GECS
                                                                -------------------------------     -----------------------------
For the years ended December 31 (In millions)                      1993        1992        1991        1993        1992      1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------      ------------------------------      -----------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>
REVENUES
   Sales of goods                                               $29,533     $29,595     $29,446     $     -     $     -   $     -
   Sales of services                                              8,289       8,348       8,075           -           -         -
   Other income (note 3)                                            730         812         798           -           -         -
   Earnings of GECS before accounting change                      1,807       1,499       1,275           -           -         -
   GECS revenues from operations (note 4)                             -           -           -      22,137      18,440    16,399
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
      Total revenues                                             40,359      40,254      39,594      22,137      18,440    16,399
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
COSTS AND EXPENSES (note 5)
   Cost of goods sold                                            22,630      22,127      21,510           -           -         -
   Cost of services sold                                          6,329       6,290       6,386           -           -         -
   Interest and other financial charges (note 7)                    525         768         893       6,473       6,122     6,536
   Insurance losses and policyholder and annuity benefits             -           -           -       3,172       1,957     1,623
   Provision for losses on financing receivables (note 8)             -           -           -         987       1,056     1,102
   Other costs and expenses                                       5,124       5,319       5,422       8,723       7,230     5,448
   Minority interest in net earnings of consolidated
      affiliates                                                     17          13          39         134          40        33
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
      Total costs and expenses                                   34,625      34,517      34,250      19,489      16,405    14,742
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
   ACCOUNTING CHANGES                                             5,734       5,737       5,344       2,648       2,035     1,657
Provision for income taxes (note 9)                              (1,310)     (1,432)     (1,360)       (841)       (536)     (382)
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE ACCOUNTING CHANGES     4,424       4,305       3,984       1,807       1,499     1,275
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
   of $44, $248 and $259, respectively (note 2)                      75         420         451           -           -         -
Gain on transfer of discontinued operations, net
   of income taxes of $752                                          678           -           -           -           -         -
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
EARNINGS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS                               753         420         451           -           -         -
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
EARNINGS BEFORE ACCOUNTING CHANGES                                5,177       4,725       4,435       1,807       1,499     1,275
Cumulative effects of accounting changes (notes 6 and 22)          (862)          -      (1,799)          -           -       (19)
                                                                -------     -------     -------     -------     -------   -------
NET EARNINGS                                                    $ 4,315     $ 4,725     $ 2,636     $ 1,807     $ 1,499   $ 1,256
                                                                =======     =======     =======     =======     =======   =======
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
In the supplemental consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated
companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates"
columns on page 26.
</TABLE>
                                      F-3
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 28

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
|STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                 General Electric Company
                                                                               and consolidated affiliates
                                                                            -------------------------------
At December 31 (In millions)                                                    1993                   1992
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------       -------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>                    <C>
ASSETS
Cash and equivalents                                                        $  3,218               $  3,129
GECS trading securities (note 10)                                             30,165                 24,154
Investment securities (note 11)                                               26,811                 11,256
Securities purchased under agreements to resell                               43,463                 26,788
Current receivables (note 12)                                                  8,195                  7,150
Inventories (note 13)                                                          3,824                  4,574
GECS financing receivables (investment in time sales, loans and
   financing leases) - net (note 14)                                          63,948                 59,388
Other GECS receivables                                                        15,616                  8,025
Property, plant and equipment (including equipment leased
   to others) - net (note 15)                                                 21,228                 20,387
Investment in GECS                                                                 -                      -
Intangible assets (note 16)                                                   10,364                  9,510
All other assets (note 17)                                                    24,674                 16,625
Net assets of discontinued operations                                              -                  1,890
                                                                            --------               --------
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                $251,506               $192,876
                                                                             ========              ========
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------       -------------------------------
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Short-term borrowings (note 18)                                             $ 62,135               $ 56,389
Accounts payable, principally trade accounts                                  11,956                  8,245
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase                                56,669                 36,014
Securities sold but not yet purchased, at market (note 19)                    15,332                 11,413
Progress collections and price adjustments accrued                             2,608                  2,150
Dividends payable                                                                615                    539
All other GE current costs and expenses accrued (note 20)                      6,414                  5,725
Long-term borrowings (note 18)                                                28,270                 25,376
Insurance reserves and annuity benefits (note 21)                             22,909                  7,948
All other liabilities (note 22)                                               12,009                  9,734
Deferred income taxes (note 23)                                                5,109                  4,540
                                                                            --------               --------
   Total liabilities                                                         224,026                168,073
                                                                            --------               --------
   Minority interest in equity of consolidated affiliates (note 24)            1,656                  1,344
                                                                            --------               --------
Common stock (926,564,000 shares issued)                                         584                    584
Other capital                                                                  1,398                    755
Retained earnings                                                             28,613                 26,527
Less common stock held in treasury                                            (4,771)                (4,407)
                                                                            --------               --------
   Total share owners' equity (notes 25 and 26)                               25,824                 23,459
                                                                            --------               --------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                                $251,506               $192,876
                                                                            ========               ========
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
The notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 45-64 are an integral part of this statement.
</TABLE>

                                      F-4
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 29

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         GE                        GECS
                                                                             ---------------------       -----------------------
At December 31 (In millions)                                                    1993          1992           1993           1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------      ---------------------       -----------------------
<S>                                                                           <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>
ASSETS
Cash and equivalents                                                         $ 1,536       $ 1,189       $  1,682       $  1,940
GECS trading securities (note 10)                                                  -             -         30,165         24,154
Investment securities (note 11)                                                   19            32         26,792         11,224
Securities purchased under agreements to resell                                    -             -         43,463         26,788
Current receivables (note 12)                                                  8,561         7,462              -              -
Inventories (note 13)                                                          3,824         4,574              -              -
GECS financing receivables (investment in time sales, loans and
   financing leases) - net (note 14)                                               -             -         63,948         59,388
Other GECS receivables                                                             -             -         15,799          8,476
Property, plant and equipment (including equipment leased
   to others) - net (note 15)                                                  9,542         9,932         11,686         10,455
Investment in GECS                                                            10,809         8,884              -              -
Intangible assets (note 16)                                                    6,466         6,607          3,898          2,903
All other assets (note 17)                                                    10,377         7,505         14,297          9,196
Net assets of discontinued operations                                              -         1,890              -              -
                                                                             -------       -------       --------       --------
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                 $51,134       $48,075       $211,730       $154,524
                                                                             =======       =======       ========       ========
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------      ---------------------       -----------------------
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Short-term borrowings (note 18)                                              $ 2,391       $ 3,448       $ 60,003       $ 53,183
Accounts payable, principally trade accounts                                   2,331         2,217          9,885          6,624
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase                                     -             -         56,669         36,014
Securities sold but not yet purchased, at market (note 19)                         -             -         15,332         11,413
Progress collections and price adjustments accrued                             2,608         2,150              -              -
Dividends payable                                                                615           539              -              -
All other GE current costs and expenses accrued (note 20)                      6,414         5,725              -              -
Long-term borrowings (note 18)                                                 2,413         3,420         25,885         21,957
Insurance reserves and annuity benefits (note 21)                                  -             -         22,909          7,948
All other liabilities (note 22)                                                8,482         7,096          3,529          2,638
Deferred income taxes (note 23)                                                 (299)         (329)         5,408          4,869
                                                                             -------       -------       --------       --------
   Total liabilities                                                          24,955        24,266        199,620        144,646
                                                                             -------       -------       --------       --------
   Minority interest in equity of consolidated affiliates (note 24)              355           350          1,301            994
                                                                             -------       -------       --------       --------
Common stock (926,564,000 shares issued)                                         584           584              1              1
Other capital                                                                  1,398           755          2,596          1,868
Retained earnings                                                             28,613        26,527          8,212          7,015
Less common stock held in treasury                                            (4,771)       (4,407)             -              -
                                                                             -------       -------       --------       --------
   Total share owners' equity (notes 25 and 26)                               25,824        23,459         10,809          8,884
                                                                             -------       -------       --------       --------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                                 $51,134       $48,075       $211,730       $154,524
                                                                             =======       =======       ========       ========
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
In the supplemental consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated
companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates"
columns on page 28.
</TABLE>

                                      F-5
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 30

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           General Electric Company
                                                                         and consolidated affiliates
                                                                    ------------------------------------
For the years ended December 31 (In millions)                            1993        1992           1991
- ---------------------------------------------------------------     ------------------------------------
<S>                                                                   <C>         <C>            <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net earnings                                                         $  4,315    $  4,725       $  2,636
Less earnings from discontinued operations                               (753)       (420)          (451)
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash provided
   from operating activities
      Cumulative effects of accounting changes                            862           -          1,799
      Depreciation, depletion and amortization                          3,261       2,818          2,654
      Earnings retained by GECS                                             -           -              -
      Deferred income taxes                                               461         707            826
      Decrease (increase) in GE current receivables                      (571)        135           (215)
      Decrease in GE inventories                                          750         820            378
      Increase (decrease) in accounts payable                           3,345          57          1,151
      Increase in insurance reserves                                    1,479         703            725
      Provision for losses on financing receivables                       987       1,056          1,102
      Net change in certain broker-dealer accounts                        382       1,018         (1,548)
      All other operating activities                                   (4,407)     (2,111)        (1,952)
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
Net cash from continuing operations                                    10,111       9,508          7,105
Net cash from discontinued operations                                      76         741            392
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
CASH PROVIDED FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES                                10,187      10,249          7,497
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Additions to property, plant and equipment                             (4,739)     (4,824)        (4,870)
Dispositions of property, plant and equipment                           1,155       1,793          1,090
Net increase in GECS financing receivables                             (4,164)     (4,683)        (7,254)
Payments for principal businesses purchased                            (2,090)     (2,013)        (3,769)
Proceeds from principal business dispositions                               -          90            604
All other investing activities                                         (6,639)     (3,823)        (2,045)
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
Cash for investing activities - continuing operations                 (16,477)    (13,460)       (16,244)
Cash from (used for) investing activities
   - discontinued operations                                              886         (93)          (117)
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES                                    (15,591)    (13,553)       (16,361)
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Net change in borrowings (maturities 90 days or less)                   4,464       3,092          6,126
Newly issued debt (maturities more than 90 days)                       15,468      13,084         15,374
Repayments and other reductions (maturities more
   than 90 days)                                                      (11,853)     (9,008)       (10,158)
Disposition of GE shares from treasury (mainly for
   employee plans)                                                        406         425            410
Purchase of GE shares for treasury                                       (770)     (1,206)        (1,112)
Dividends paid to share owners                                         (2,153)     (1,925)        (1,780)
All other financing activities                                            (69)          -              -
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
CASH PROVIDED FROM (USED FOR) FINANCING ACTIVITIES                      5,493       4,462          8,860
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND EQUIVALENTS DURING YEAR                    89       1,158             (4)
Cash and equivalents at beginning of year                               3,129       1,971          1,975
                                                                     --------    --------       --------
Cash and equivalents at end of year                                  $  3,218    $  3,129       $  1,971
                                                                     ========    ========       ========
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
Cash paid during the year for interest                               $ (6,689)   $ (6,477)      $ (7,145)
Cash paid during the year for income taxes                             (1,644)     (1,033)        (1,244)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
The notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 45-64 are an integral part of this statement.
</TABLE>

                                      F-6
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 31
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          GE                                 GECS
                                                           -------------------------------     ------------------------------
For the years ended December 31 (In millions)                   1993        1992      1991         1993       1992       1991
- ---------------------------------------------------------  -------------------------------     ------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net earnings                                                 $ 4,315     $ 4,725   $ 2,636      $ 1,807    $ 1,499    $ 1,256
Less earnings from discontinued operations                      (753)       (420)     (451)           -          -          -
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash provided
   from operating activities
      Cumulative effects of accounting changes                   862           -     1,799            -          -         19
      Depreciation, depletion and amortization                 1,631       1,483     1,429        1,630      1,335      1,225
      Earnings retained by GECS                               (1,197)       (999)     (925)           -          -          -
      Deferred income taxes                                      120         675       271          341         32        555
      Decrease (increase) in GE current receivables             (625)         68      (109)           -          -          -
      Decrease in GE inventories                                 750         820       378            -          -          -
      Increase (decrease) in accounts payable                    114         (43)     (203)       3,246        139      1,391
      Increase in insurance reserves                               -           -         -        1,479        703        725
      Provision for losses on financing receivables                -           -         -          987      1,056      1,102
      Net change in certain broker-dealer accounts                 -           -         -          382      1,018     (1,548)
      All other operating activities                             (16)     (1,736)   (1,199)      (4,419)      (439)      (754)
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
Net cash from continuing operations                            5,201       4,573     3,626        5,453      5,343      3,971
Net cash from discontinued operations                             76         741       392            -          -          -
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
CASH PROVIDED FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES                        5,277       5,314     4,018        5,453      5,343      3,971
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Additions to property, plant and equipment                    (1,588)     (1,445)   (2,126)      (3,151)    (3,379)    (2,744)
Dispositions of property, plant and equipment                     55          46        61        1,100      1,747      1,029
Net increase in GECS financing receivables                         -           -         -       (4,164)    (4,683)    (7,254)
Payments for principal businesses purchased                        -           -      (933)      (2,090)    (2,013)    (2,836)
Proceeds from principal business dispositions                      -          90       327            -          -        277
All other investing activities                                   298        (103)      (60)      (6,914)    (3,668)    (2,125)
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
Cash for investing activities - continuing operations         (1,235)     (1,412)   (2,731)     (15,219)   (11,996)   (13,653)
Cash from (used for) investing activities
   - discontinued operations                                     886         (93)     (117)           -          -          -
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES                              (349)     (1,505)   (2,848)     (15,219)   (11,996)   (13,653)
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Net change in borrowings (maturities 90 days or less)             46        (763)      483        4,462      3,895      5,641
Newly issued debt (maturities more than 90 days)                 215       1,331     2,136       15,253     11,753     13,238
Repayments and other reductions (maturities more
   than 90 days)                                              (2,325)     (1,528)   (1,573)      (9,528)    (7,480)    (8,585)
Disposition of GE shares from treasury (mainly for
   employee plans)                                               406         425       410            -          -          -
Purchase of GE shares for treasury                              (770)     (1,206)   (1,112)           -          -          -
Dividends paid to share owners                                (2,153)     (1,925)   (1,780)        (610)      (500)      (350)
All other financing activities                                     -           -         -          (69)         -          -
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
CASH PROVIDED FROM (USED FOR) FINANCING ACTIVITIES            (4,581)     (3,666)   (1,436)       9,508      7,668      9,944
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND EQUIVALENTS DURING YEAR          347         143      (266)        (258)     1,015        262
Cash and equivalents at beginning of year                      1,189       1,046     1,312        1,940        925        663
                                                             -------     -------   -------      -------    -------    -------
Cash and equivalents at end of year                          $ 1,536     $ 1,189   $ 1,046      $ 1,682    $ 1,940    $   925
                                                             =======     =======   =======      =======    =======    =======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION

Cash paid during the year for interest                       $  (473)    $  (570)  $  (761)     $(6,216)   $(5,907)   $(6,384)
Cash paid during the year for income taxes                    (1,455)       (936)   (1,343)        (189)       (97)        99
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
In the supplemental consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated
companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates"
columns on page 30.
</TABLE>

                                      F-7
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 32

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

General Electric Company's consolidated financial statements represent the
combination of the Company's manufacturing and nonfinancial services
businesses ("GE") and the accounts of General Electric Capital Services, Inc.
("GECS"). See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which explains
how the various financial data are presented.

      Management's Discussion of Operations is in four parts: Consolidated
Operations, GE Operations, GECS Operations and, on page 38, International
Operations.

CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

1993 WAS ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR for the General Electric Company in a
difficult global economy, reflecting solid operating performance in all of the
businesses in its diversified portfolio except, as expected, Aircraft Engines.
Consolidated revenues increased 6% to $60.6 billion, led by GE Capital
Services, Power Systems, Transportation Systems, Appliances, and Electrical
Distribution and Control.

CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS were $4.315 billion compared with $4.725 billion in 1992
and $2.636 billion in 1991. Three important factors should be considered in
evaluating the Company's 1993 operations - restructuring provisions,
discontinued operations and the effect of an accounting change. Each of these
factors is discussed separately below. Without these items, 1993 earnings
would have been $5.102 billion, up 16% from the comparable 1992 level.
Particularly good results were reported in GE Capital Services, NBC, Plastics
and Power Systems.

         *  Restructuring provisions in 1993 amounted to $678 million after
taxes. These provisions cover costs of a plan that will enhance the Company's
global competitiveness. The approved plan includes explicit programs that will
result in the closing, downsizing and streamlining of certain production,
service and administration facilities worldwide. Costs include, among other
things, asset write-offs, lease terminations and severance benefits. See
Industry Segments beginning on page 33 for further information on
restructuring.

         *  Discontinued operations reported earnings of $753 million ($.88
per share), up $333 million from 1992. The increase included a gain of $678
million ($.79 per share) resulting from transfer of the Aerospace businesses
at the beginning of the second quarter, which was partially offset by the
absence of nine months of 1992 earnings ($326 million) and lower first-quarter
1993 earnings ($19 million).



         *  Accounting changes included the 1993 adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 112, Employers' Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits. The transition effect of this accounting change
decreased net earnings by $862 million ($1.01 per share), with a corresponding
decrease in share owners' equity. See note 22 for a further discussion of SFAS
No. 112.

      The 1991 accounting change, adoption of SFAS No. 106, Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, had the transition
effect of reducing net earnings by $1,799 million ($2.07 per share), with a
corresponding decrease in share owners' equity.

      As a result of these noncash charges, the return on average share
owners' equity was reduced to 17.5% in 1993 and 12.2% in 1991, compared with
20.9% in 1992.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS include SFAS No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan, which modifies the accounting that applies when it is
probable that all amounts due under contractual terms of a loan will not be
collected. Management does not believe that this Statement, required to be
adopted no later than the first quarter of 1995, will have a material effect
on the Company's financial position or results of operations, although such
effect will depend on the facts at the time of adoption.

DIVIDENDS DECLARED totaled $2.229 billion in 1993. Per-share dividends of
$2.61 were up 13% from the previous year's $2.32 per share, marking the 18th
consecutive year of dividend growth. Dividends declared per share increased
12% in 1992 over 1991, following an 8% increase the year before. Even though
substantial dividends were paid, the Company retained sufficient earnings to
invest in new plant and equipment for a wide variety of capital expenditure
projects, particularly those which increase productivity, and to provide
adequate financial resources for internal and external growth opportunities.

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  EARNINGS BEFORE ACCOUNTING CHANGES (In billions)
<CAPTION>
                                      1989            1990          1991           1992           1993
<S>                                 <C>             <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Continuing operations               $3.503          $3.889        $3.984         $4.305         $4.424
Discontinued operations              0.436           0.414         0.451          0.420          0.753
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
                                      F-8
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 33
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE OPERATIONS

GE TOTAL REVENUES of $40.4 billion in 1993 were about the same as 1992's
revenues, which were up about 2% from $39.6 billion in 1991.

    *    GE's sales of goods and services were essentially unchanged during
the three-year period, with the sales effects of changes in volume and prices
differing markedly among its businesses. Overall, volume was about 2% higher
in 1993 than in 1992, with good increases in Plastics, Transportation Systems,
Appliances and Power Systems that were partially offset by reduced shipments
in Aircraft Engines and lower advertising revenues in NBC, principally because
there was no counterpart to the 1992 Summer Olympics. Lower 1993 selling
prices in many businesses, particularly Plastics, Medical Systems and
Lighting, offset the net volume increase. Sales in 1992 were up about 1% from
1991 because of the effect of about 2% higher shipment volume, approximately
one-half of which was offset by lower selling prices.

    *    GE's other income from a wide variety of sources was $730 million in
1993, $812 million in 1992 and $798 million in 1991. Details of GE's other
income are in note 3.

    *    Earnings of GECS were up 21% in 1993 following an 18% increase the
year before. See page 36 for details of these earnings.

TOTAL COSTS AND EXPENSES FOR GE were virtually flat for the three-year period,
despite much higher restructuring provisions in 1993. Principal elements of
these costs and expenses are costs of goods and services sold; selling,
general and administrative expense; and interest expense.

    *    Operating margin is sales of goods and services less the costs of
goods and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.
After restructuring provisions, operating margin was 9.9% of sales in 1993
compared with 11.1% in 1992 and 11.2% in 1991. Before such provisions, GE's
operating margins were 12.5% in 1993 compared with 11.5% in 1992 and 1991. In
1993, all businesses other than Aircraft Engines increased their margin rates
before restructuring by one to five full points. Strong 1992 operating margin
improvements in Power Systems, NBC and Medical Systems were offset by the
effects of reduced volume at Aircraft Engines and pricing pressures at both
Plastics and Aircraft Engines.

    *    Total cost productivity (sales in relation to costs on a constant
dollar basis) was 3.8% in 1993 compared with 4.3% in 1992 and 3.9% in 1991,
and it more than offset the impact of inflation on the Company in all three
years. Lower volume at Aircraft Engines more than explained the 1993 decline.
Excluding Aircraft Engines, productivity was 5.3% in 1993 compared with 4.8%
in 1992.

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  GE/S&P DIVIDENDS PER SHARE INCREASE COMPARED WITH 1988
<CAPTION>
                         1989              1990              1991              1992              1993
<S>                      <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
GE                       16.4%             31.5%             42.5%             58.9%             78.8%
S&P 500                  13.6              24.4              25.4              27.2              30.6
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

    *    Interest expense in 1993 was $525 million, down 32% from $768 million
in 1992. The lower interest expense was attributable to a decrease in the
average level of borrowings and, to a lesser extent, lower interest rates.
Interest expense decreased 14% in 1992 compared with 1991, primarily because
of lower rates.

      GE enters 1994 on a strong note, with excellent cash flows and a strong
balance sheet. The Company continues to be well positioned to capitalize on
both global growth opportunities and gradual improvement in the U.S. economy
in the coming year.

GE INDUSTRY SEGMENT REVENUES AND OPERATING PROFIT for the last five years are
shown in the table on page 35. Revenues include income from sales of goods and
services to customers and other income. Sales from one Company component to
another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices.
Intersegment revenues are shown in note 29. Operating profit includes
provisions for restructuring actions. Corporate items not traceable to
segments includes provision of $80 million to cover costs associated with
rationalization of corporate facilities.

    *    AIRCRAFT ENGINES revenues were down 11% from the 1992 level, which
was 5% lower than in 1991. The decreases reflected the continuing weakness in
shipments of engines and spare parts in both the military and commercial
markets, which were only partially offset by higher sales of aeroderivative
engines for marine and industrial applications and, in 1993, by consolidation
of a recently acquired overhaul facility in the United Kingdom. Even with
these market conditions, 1993 operating profit totaled $798 million, a 37%
decline from 1992 following an 8% decrease the year before. The decreases were
largely due to lower volume discussed above and, in 1993, provisions for
restructuring of $267 million covering incremental costs associated with
closing and relocating certain manufacturing

                                      F-9

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 34
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

and warehousing facilities to reduce the cost structure of the business in
line with lower volume.

      About $2.4 billion of 1993 revenues were from sales to the U.S.
government, about the same as 1992 but down from $3.0 billion in 1991.
Revenues associated with development of the F414 engine for the U.S. Navy's
top-priority fighter offset declines in other diversified programs.

      Firm orders received during 1993 totaled $5.7 billion compared with $5.9
billion in 1992 and $6.3 billion in 1991. The firm order backlog declined to
$7.7 billion at the end of 1993 from $9.5 billion at the end of 1992,
reflecting a $0.9 billion excess of revenues over new orders and cancellations
of $0.9 billion. Approximately 34% of the backlog was scheduled for delivery
in 1994.

      The dual impact of declining military sales and weakness in commercial
airline markets worldwide makes it unlikely that revenues and operating profit
will rebound to levels of the early 1990s until, at the earliest, the 1996 to
1997 time frame. Management has taken aggressive actions over the past three
years to respond to these market realities, reducing the work force by about
13,000 employees through layoffs and attrition, and it will continue to
monitor the changing business conditions closely.

    *    APPLIANCES revenues were up 4% from 1992, with volume improvement in
all core appliance lines, mostly as a result of continued improvement in U.S.
markets and slightly higher share. A 4% decrease in 1993 operating profit
resulted principally from $136 million of restructuring provisions covering
costs associated with closing, downsizing and consolidating consumer service
and production facilities to enhance productivity. Benefits from 1993
productivity gains partially offset the effect of these provisions. Revenues
were up 2% in 1992, reflecting increased demand in U.S. markets, particularly
for refrigerators and ranges. A 4% decrease in 1992 operating profit resulted
principally from lower selling prices, cost increases and significant
investment in new products and services, the combination of which more than
offset the higher volume and productivity gains.

    *    BROADCASTING revenues were down 8% in 1993, primarily because there
was no counterpart to the 1992 Summer Olympic Games. Operating profit,
however, increased 29% despite $81 million of restructuring provisions to
cover lease terminations, associated asset write-offs and other incremental
costs to enhance productivity. The increase resulted mainly from absence of a
counterpart to the programming costs associated with the Olympic Games and
generally lower 1993 overhead costs. Cable operations posted significant gains
in both revenues and operating profit. Operating profit declined 2% in 1992
from the prior year on an 8% increase in revenues. The decline was caused by
the lack of a counterpart to the 1991 gain on the sale of NBC's interest in
the RCA Columbia Home Video joint venture and the negative impact of the
Summer Olympics, both of which were substantially offset by cost-control
measures, double-digit profit increases at five of NBC's six owned-and-
operated television stations and NBC Cable's first full year of operating
profit.

    *    INDUSTRIAL revenues in 1993 were 7% higher than in 1992, mainly
because of significantly higher locomotive shipments. Operating profit
declined 12%, however, largely because of restructuring provisions of $211
million to cover incremental costs of downsizing and consolidating production
and logistical operations worldwide, and because of weak prices in most
businesses. Both of these factors were only partially offset by very good
productivity across the segment and substantially improved Lighting operations
in Europe. In 1992, operating profit was about the same as in 1991 on slightly
higher revenues, reflecting pricing pressures, cost increases and lower
locomotive shipments, which were about offset by strong productivity
throughout the segment and by higher revenues and operating profit in the
Lighting business, including the effect of the 1992 consolidation of Thorn.

    *    MATERIALS revenues increased 4% in 1993, primarily as a result of
double-digit volume growth in U.S. and Asian markets, which was partially
offset by worldwide price declines. Operating profit was 13% higher than in
1992 as substantial productivity improvements, material cost decreases and
favorable exchange gains much more than offset the lower prices, the impact of
inflation and $52 million of restructuring provisions for equipment write-offs
and downsizing of European operations. Revenues increased 2% in 1992,
principally because of a higher physical volume of shipments. Operating
profit, however, decreased 8% because the combination of significant price
erosion and cost inflation exceeded productivity gains.

    *    POWER SYSTEMS revenues increased by 5% in 1993 as higher levels of
gas turbine shipments, increased sales of nuclear fuel and volume increases in
the Industrial Systems and Services business more than offset lower sales in
Power Delivery. Operating profit increased 10% over 1992, principally on the
strength of gas turbine revenues and productivity, the combination of which
more than offset restructuring provisions of $124 million to cover,
principally, incremental costs of facility demolitions, associated asset write-
offs and downsizing of the apparatus service business. Operating profit was
18% higher in 1992 than in 1991 on 3% higher revenues, mainly reflecting Power
Generation's volume growth in the gas turbine business and productivity gains.
Power Systems orders totaled $7.0 billion for 1993 compared with the very
strong $7.5 billion and $8.0 billion in 1992 and 1991, respectively. The Power
Systems backlog was $9.9 billion at the end of 1993, down



                                     F-10

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 35

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
|SUMMARY OF INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates
                                                             -------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 31 (In millions)                   1993          1992          1991           1990             1989
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>              <C>
REVENUES
   GE
      Aircraft Engines                                       $ 6,580       $ 7,368       $ 7,777        $ 7,504          $ 6,862
      Appliances                                               5,555         5,330         5,225          5,592            5,358
      Broadcasting                                             3,102         3,363         3,121          3,236            3,392
      Industrial                                               7,379         6,907         6,783          6,644            6,689
      Materials                                                5,042         4,853         4,736          5,140            4,944
      Power Systems                                            6,692         6,371         6,189          5,600            5,104
      Technical Products and Services                          4,174         4,674         4,686          4,259            4,049
      All Other                                                2,043         1,749         1,545          1,369            1,246
      Corporate items and eliminations                          (208)         (361)         (468)          (285)            (433)
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
         Total GE                                             40,359        40,254        39,594         39,059           37,211
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
   GECS
      Financing                                               12,399        10,544        10,069          9,000            7,333
      Specialty Insurance                                      4,862         3,863         2,989          2,853            2,710
      Securities Broker-Dealer                                 4,861         4,022         3,346          2,923            2,897
      All Other                                                   15            11            (5)            (2)               5
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
         Total GECS                                           22,137        18,440        16,399         14,774           12,945
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
   Eliminations                                               (1,934)       (1,621)       (1,364)        (1,214)          (1,021)
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
      CONSOLIDATED REVENUES                                  $60,562       $57,073       $54,629        $52,619          $49,135
                                                             =======       =======       =======        =======          =======
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING PROFIT
   GE
      Aircraft Engines                                       $   798       $ 1,274       $ 1,390        $ 1,253          $ 1,050
      Appliances                                                 372           386           400            435              386
      Broadcasting                                               264           204           209            477              603
      Industrial                                                 782           888           885            910              847
      Materials                                                  834           740           800          1,010            1,055
      Power Systems                                            1,143         1,037           882            666              471
      Technical Products and Services                            706           912           693            538              538
      All Other                                                2,036         1,717         1,513          1,295            1,103
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
         Total GE                                              6,935         7,158         6,772          6,584            6,053
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
   GECS
      Financing                                                1,727         1,366         1,327          1,267            1,152
      Specialty Insurance                                        770           641           501            457              361
      Securities Broker-Dealer                                   439           300           119            (54)             (53)
      All Other                                                 (288)         (272)         (290)          (275)            (322)
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
         Total GECS                                            2,648         2,035         1,657          1,395            1,138
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
   Eliminations                                               (1,794)       (1,485)       (1,259)        (1,073)            (903)
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
      CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT                            7,789         7,708         7,170          6,906            6,288
   GE interest and financial charges, net of eliminations       (529)         (752)         (881)          (941)            (715)
   GE items not traceable to segments                           (685)         (683)         (563)          (480)            (552)
                                                             -------       -------       -------        -------          -------
EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES
   AND ACCOUNTING CHANGES                                    $ 6,575       $ 6,273       $ 5,726        $ 5,485          $ 5,021
                                                             =======       =======       =======        =======          =======

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
The notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 45-64 are an integral part of this statement. "GE" means the basis of
consolidation as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means General Electric Capital Services, Inc.
and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Operating profit of GE segments excludes interest and other financial charges;
operating profit of GECS includes interest and discount expense, which is the largest element of GECS' operating costs.
</TABLE>

                                     F-11

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 36
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

4% from December 31, 1992, mainly because of the transfer of a component that
procured materials for the U.S. Navy. Approximately 40% of the 1993 backlog
was scheduled for shipment during 1994.

    *    TECHNICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES revenues were down 11% in 1993,
principally because of 1992 transfers, dispositions and realignment of the
former Communications and Services businesses (other than GE Information
Services). Increased physical volume of 1993 Medical Systems sales, up about
4% because of international sales, was largely offset by continuing pricing
pressures worldwide. Segment operating profit in 1993 was down sharply, mainly
because there was no counterpart to the 1992 gain on realignment of the equity
position of GE and Ericsson in their mobile communications joint venture and
because of restructuring provisions of $60 million to downsize manufacturing
and services operations worldwide. Both of these factors were only partially
offset by productivity gains and substantially improved Medical Systems
operations in Europe. Operating profit was up 32% in 1992 over 1991 on flat
revenues, primarily because of the aforementioned gain, strong productivity
and much improved results in GE Information Services. Orders received by
Medical Systems in 1993 were down slightly from 1992's strong performance. A
decline in U.S. equipment markets more than offset growth in international
orders. The backlog of unfilled orders at year-end 1993 was $1.7 billion ($1.8
billion at the end of 1992), about 80% of which was scheduled to be shipped in
1994.

    *    ALL OTHER consists primarily of GECS' earnings, which are discussed
below. Also included are revenues derived from licensing use of GE know-how to
others.

GECS OPERATIONS

GECS conducts its business in three segments. Financing segment includes
financing operations of GE Capital Corporation (GE Capital). Specialty
Insurance segment includes operations of Employers Reinsurance Corporation
(ERC) and the insurance businesses of GE Capital described on page 61.
Securities Broker-Dealer segment includes operations of Kidder, Peabody Group
Inc. (Kidder, Peabody).

GECS' EARNINGS were $1.807 billion in 1993, 21% higher than 1992's earnings,
which were 18% more than comparable 1991 earnings. The 1993 increase reflected
strong performance in the Financing segment, mainly as a result of a favorable
interest-rate environment, asset growth and improved asset quality. Earnings
in GECS' Securities Broker-Dealer and Specialty Insurance segments also were
substantially higher in 1993, following sharp improvements in 1992.

GECS' PRINCIPAL COST IS FOR INTEREST on borrowings. Interest expense in 1993
was $6.5 billion, 6% higher than in 1992, which was 6% lower than in 1991. The
1993 increase was a result of funding increased security positions in the
Securities Broker-Dealer segment, partially offset by substantially lower
rates on higher average borrowings in the Financing segment. The 1992 decrease
reflected substantially lower interest rates, which more than offset the
effects of higher average borrowings. The composite interest rate on GECS'
borrowings was 4.96% in 1993 compared with 5.78% in 1992 and 7.46% in 1991.

GECS' OTHER COSTS AND EXPENSES increased to $8.7 billion in 1993 from $7.2
billion in 1992 and $5.4 billion in 1991, reflecting higher investment levels
and acquisitions of businesses and portfolios.

GECS' INDUSTRY SEGMENT REVENUES AND OPERATING PROFIT for the past five years
are shown in the table on page 35. Revenues from operations (earned income)
are detailed in note 4.

    *    FINANCING segment operating profit of $1.727 billion in 1993 was up
26% from 1992, which was 3% higher than in 1991. Asset growth and increased
financing spread, the excess of yield (rates earned) over interest rates on
borrowings, were significant factors in both years. Assets grew 30% during
1993 and 10% in 1992 because of acquisitions of businesses and portfolios,
including the 1993 annuity business acquisitions, and because of higher
origination volume. During both years, the effects of declining interest rates
on borrowings resulted in increased financing spreads. Yields on assets were
essentially flat in 1993 compared with 1992, following a decline from 1991.
Other costs and expenses increased in 1993 and 1992, mainly because of asset
growth.

      The portfolio of financing receivables, $63.9 billion and $59.4 billion
at the end of 1993 and 1992, respectively, is the Financing segment's largest
asset and the primary source of its revenues. Related allowances for losses at
the end of 1993 aggregated $1.7 billion (2.63% of receivables - the same level
as 1992) and are, in management's judgment, appropriate given the risk profile
of the portfolio. A discussion about the quality of certain elements of the
Financing segment investment portfolio follows. Further details are included
in note 14.

      Consumer loans receivable, primarily retailer and auto receivables, were
$17.3 billion and $14.8 billion at the end of 1993 and 1992, respectively.
GECS' investment in consumer auto finance lease receivables was $5.6 billion
and $4.8 billion at the end of 1993 and 1992, respectively. Nonearning
receivables, 1.7% of total loans and leases (2.1% at the end of 1992),
amounted to $391 million at the end of 1993. The provision for losses on
retailer and auto financing receivables was $469 million in 1993, a 19%

                                     F-12

<PAGE>
Annual Report Page 37
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

decrease from $578 million in 1992, reflecting reduced consumer delinquencies
and intensified collection efforts, particularly in Europe. Most nonearning
receivables were private-label credit card receivables, the majority of which
were subject to various loss-sharing arrangements that provide full or partial
recourse to the originating retailer.

      Commercial real estate loans classified as finance receivables by GE
Capital's Commercial Real Estate business were $10.9 billion at December 31,
1993, up $0.4 billion from the end of 1992. In addition, the investment
portfolio of GECS' annuity business, acquired during 1993, included $1.1
billion of commercial property loans. Commercial real estate loans are
generally secured by first mortgages. In addition to loans, Commercial Real
Estate's portfolio also included in other assets $2.2 billion of assets that
were purchased for resale from Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) and other
institutions and $1.4 billion of investments in real estate joint ventures. In
recent years, GECS has been one of the largest purchasers of assets from RTC
and others, growing its portfolio of properties acquired for resale by $1.1
billion in 1993. To date, values realized on these assets have met or exceeded
expectations at the time of purchase. Investments in real estate joint
ventures have been made as part of original financings and in conjunction with
loan restructurings where management believes that such investments will
enhance economic returns.

      Commercial Real Estate's foreclosed properties at the end of 1993
declined to $110 million from $187 million at the end of 1992.

      At December 31, 1993, Commercial Real Estate's portfolio included loans
secured by and investments in a variety of property types that were well
dispersed geographically. Property types included apartments (36%), office
buildings (32%), shopping centers (14%), mixed use (8%) and industrial and
other (10%). These properties were located mainly across the United States as
follows - Mid-Atlantic (21%), Northeast (20%), Southwest (19%), West (15%),
Southeast (12%), Central (8%) - with the remainder (5%) across Canada and
Europe. Nonearning and reduced earning receivables declined to $272 million in
1993 from $361 million in 1992, reflecting proactive management of delinquent
receivables as well as write-offs. Loss provisions for Commercial Real
Estate's investments were $387 million in 1993 ($248 million related to
receivables and $139 million to other assets) compared with $299 million and
$213 million in 1992 and 1991, respectively, as the portfolio continued to be
adversely affected by the weakened commercial real estate market.

      Highly leveraged transaction (HLT) portfolio represents financing
provided for highly leveraged management buyouts and corporate
recapitalizations. The portion of those

<TABLE>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  GECS' REVENUES (In billions)
<CAPTION>
   1989                1990              1991              1992              1993
<C>                 <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
$12.945             $14.774           $16.399           $18.440           $22.137
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

investments classified as financing receivables was $3.3 billion at the end of
1993 compared with $5.3 billion at the end of 1992, as substantial repayments
reduced this liquidating portfolio. The year-end balance of amounts that had
been written down to estimated fair value and carried in other assets as a
result of restructuring or in-substance repossession aggregated $544 million
at the end of 1993 and $513 million at the end of 1992 (net of allowances of
$244 million and $224 million, respectively).

      Nonearning and reduced earning receivables declined to $139 million at
the end of 1993 from $429 million the prior year. Loss provisions for HLT
investments were $181 million in 1993 ($80 million related to receivables and
$101 million to other assets) compared with $573 million in 1992 and $328
million in 1991. Nonearning and reduced earning receivables as well as loss
provisions were favorably affected by the stronger economic climate during
1993 as well as by the successful restructurings implemented during the past
few years.

      Other financing receivables, approximately $26 billion, consisted
primarily of a diverse commercial, industrial and equipment loan and lease
portfolio. This portfolio grew approximately $2 billion during 1993, while
nonearning and reduced earning receivables decreased $46 million to $98
million at year end.

      GECS had loans and leases to commercial airlines, as discussed in note
17, that aggregated about $6.8 billion at the end of 1993, up from $6 billion
at the end of 1992. At year-end 1993, GECS' commercial aircraft positions
included conditional commitments to purchase aircraft at a cost of $865
million and financial guaranties and funding commitments amounting to $450
million. These purchase commitments are subject to the aircraft having been
placed on lease under agreements, and with carriers, acceptable to GECS prior
to delivery. Expenses associated with redeployment and refurbishment of owned
aircraft

                                     F-13

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 38

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

totaled $112 million in 1993 compared with nominal amounts in prior years.
GECS' increasing investment demonstrates its continued long-term commitment to
the airline industry.

    *    SPECIALTY INSURANCE operating profit of $770 million in 1993 was 20%
higher than in 1992, following an increase of 28% from 1991. The 1993 results
reflected higher premium volume from bond refunding in the financial guaranty
insurance business as well as reduced claims expense in the creditor insurance
business. Higher volume and investment income at GECS' private mortgage and
financial guaranty insurance businesses were the principal factors
contributing to 1992's increase.

    *    SECURITIES BROKER-DEALER (Kidder, Peabody) operating profit was $439
million in 1993, up 46% from 1992's record $300 million, which was $181
million higher than in 1991. Strong performances in both years reflected
higher investment income from trading and investment banking activities.
Favorable market conditions were an important factor in both years. Higher
interest expense in both years reflected costs associated with funding
increased security positions. Operating and administrative expenses increased
in both years, primarily because of the revenue growth and, in 1992, because
of costs associated with certain litigation settlements.

ENTERING 1994, management believes that the diversity and strength of GECS'
assets, along with vigilant attention to risk management, position it to deal
effectively with a global and changing competitive and economic landscape.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Estimated results of international operations include all exports from the
United States plus the results of GE's and GECS' operations located outside
the United States. International revenues were $18.5 billion (31% of
consolidated revenues) compared with $18.0 billion in 1992 and $16.9 billion
in 1991. In 1993, about 40% of GE's sales of goods and services were
international, approximately the same as in the previous two years. The chart
below left shows the growth in international revenues in relation to total
revenues over the past five years. International operating profit was $2.4
billion (31% of consolidated operating profit) in 1993, $2.3 billion in 1992
and $2.4 billion in 1991.

      The accompanying financial results reported in U.S. dollars are
unavoidably affected by currency exchange. A number of techniques are used to
manage the effects of currency exchange, including selective borrowings in
local currencies and selective hedging of significant cross-currency
transactions. Also, international activity is diverse, as shown for revenues
in the chart at the bottom of this column, and not concentrated in any single
currency.



      GE's export sales by major world areas are as follows.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE'S EXPORTS FROM THE UNITED STATES TO EXTERNAL CUSTOMERS

(In millions)                            1993           1992            1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>             <C>

Pacific Basin                          $2,645         $2,696          $2,408
Europe                                  2,320          2,018           2,342
Americas                                  981          1,126           1,008
Other                                   1,039          1,079           1,094
                                       ------         ------          ------
                                       $6,985         $6,919          $6,852
                                       ======         ======          ======
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Exports from GE operations in the United States to their affiliates
totaled $1.513 billion in 1993, $1.281 billion in 1992 and $1.246 billion in
1991.

      GE made a positive 1993 contribution of more than $5.1 billion to the
U.S. balance of trade. Total exports in 1993 were $8.5 billion, including
exports from the United States to both external customers and affiliates.
Imports from GE affiliates were $1.0 billion, and direct imports from external
suppliers were $2.4 billion.

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  CONSOLIDATED REVENUES (In billions)
<CAPTION>
                          1989              1990              1991              1992              1993
<S>                    <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
UNITED STATES          $36.479           $37.736           $37.771           $39.056           $42.015
INTERNATIONAL           12.656            14.883            16.858            18.017            18.547
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL REVENUES (In billions)
<CAPTION>
                          1989              1990              1991              1992              1993
<S>                     <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
EUROPE                  $5.815            $7.299            $8.124            $8.830            $9.268
PACIFIC BASIN            3.061             3.131             4.084             4.403             4.581
AMERICAS                 2.784             3.268             3.194             3.346             3.256
OTHER                    0.996             1.185             1.456             1.438             1.442
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-14

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 39

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

OVERVIEW

THIS DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY focuses on the Statement
of Financial Position (page 28) and the Statement of Cash Flows (page 30).

      Throughout the discussion, it is important to differentiate between the
businesses of GE and GECS. Although GE's manufacturing and nonfinancial
services activities involve a variety of different businesses, their
underlying characteristics are the development, the preparation for market and
the sale of tangible goods and services. Risks and rewards are directly
related to the ability to manage and finance those activities.

      GECS' principal businesses provide financing, insurance and broker-
dealer services to third parties. The underlying characteristics of these
businesses involve the management of financial risk. GECS' risks and rewards
stem from the abilities of its businesses to continue on a selective basis to
design and provide a wide range of financial services in a competitive
marketplace and to receive adequate compensation for such services. GECS is
not a "captive finance company" or a vehicle for "off-balance-sheet financing"
for GE; very little of GECS' business is directly related to other GE
operations.

      Despite the different business profiles of GE and GECS, the global
commercial airline industry is one significant example of an important source
of business for both. GE assumes financing positions primarily in support of
engine sales whereas GECS is a significant source of lease and loan financing
for the industry (see details in note 17). Even during the current difficult
period in this historically cyclical industry, management believes that the
financing positions are reasonably protected by collateral values and by its
ability to control assets, either by ownership or by security interests.

      The fundamental differences between GE and GECS are reflected in the
measurements commonly used by investors, rating agencies and financial
analysts. These differences will become clearer in the discussion that follows
with respect to the more significant items in the two financial statements.

CASH FLOWS AND LIQUIDITY OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS are displayed in the
accompanying financial statements separately from data on continuing
operations. Discontinued operations generated $962 million, $648 million and
$275 million of cash in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively. The 1993 cash flows
were principally those associated with amounts received on transfer of the
Aerospace businesses.

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

    *    GECS' TRADING SECURITIES comprise the market-making, investing and
trading portfolio of Kidder, Peabody. The

<TABLE>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  CONSOLIDATED TOTAL ASSETS (In billions)
<CAPTION>
    1989             1990              1991              1992              1993
<C>              <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
$126.121         $152.000          $166.508          $192.876          $251.506
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

increase to $30.2 billion at the end of 1993 from $24.2 billion at the end of
1992 principally reflected higher levels of government securities held in
connection with Kidder, Peabody's trading and market-making activities.

    *    INVESTMENT SECURITIES for each of the past two years were mainly
investment-grade debt securities held by GECS' Specialty Insurance and annuity
businesses in support of obligations to policyholders and annuitants. The
increase of $15.6 billion during 1993 was principally related to annuity
business acquisitions and adoption of SFAS No. 115 (see notes 1 and 11).

    *    SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENTS TO RESELL (reverse repurchase
agreements) are related to the liability account titled "Securities sold under
agreements to repurchase" (repurchase agreements). The former typically
represent highly liquid, short-term investments of excess funds; the latter,
borrowing of such funds from others. The balances at the end of 1993 and 1992
(both assets and liabilities) were solely those of Kidder, Peabody in
connection with its broker-dealer activities. The current-year increase of
$16.7 billion primarily reflected the use of these agreements in increased
"matched-book" transactions as well as to cover increased short inventory
positions in similar securities.

    *    GE'S CURRENT RECEIVABLES are mainly amounts due from customers ($5.7
billion at December 31, 1993, and $5.3 billion at December 31, 1992). As a
measure of asset utilization, receivables turnover was 7.0 in 1993 compared
with 6.9 in 1992. Management believes that the overall condition of customer
receivables was satisfactory at the end of 1993. Current receivables other
than amounts owed by customers are amounts that did not originate from sales
of GE goods or services, such as advances to suppliers in connection with
large contracts.

                                     F-15

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 40
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *    INVENTORIES were $3.8 billion at December 31, 1993, down about $0.8
billion from the end of 1992. Inventory turnover was 6.0 in 1993 compared with
5.3 in 1992 and 4.7 in 1991. As with receivables turnover, inventory turnover
is a measurement of efficient use of resources. About two-thirds of the
inventory decrease in 1993 was achieved in Aircraft Engines as a result of
reduced manufacturing cycle times and lower volume. Turnover improved more
than one turn in Appliances, Motors and Transportation Systems. Last-in, first-
out (LIFO) revaluations decreased $179 million in 1993 compared with decreases
of $204 million in 1992 and $141 million in 1991. Included in these changes
were decreases of $101 million, $183 million and $111 million (1993, 1992 and
1991, respectively) resulting from lower inventory levels. There were modest
overall cost decreases in all three years.

    *    GECS' FINANCING RECEIVABLES of $63.9 billion at year-end 1993 were
$4.5 billion higher than at December 31, 1992. These receivables are discussed
on page 36 and in note 14.

    *    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (including equipment leased to others)
was $21.2 billion at December 31, 1993, up $0.8 billion. GE's property, plant
and equipment consists of investments for its own productive use, whereas the
largest element of GECS' investment is in equipment that is provided to third
parties on operating leases. Details by category of investment can be found in
note 15.

      GE's total expenditures for new plant and equipment during 1993 were
$1.6 billion, slightly higher than $1.4 billion in 1992. Total expenditures
for the past five years were $9.4 billion, of which 25% was to increase
capacity; 24% was to increase productivity; 12% was to replace and renew older
equipment; 12% was to support new business start-ups; and 27% was for such
other purposes as to improve research and development facilities and to
provide for safety and environmental protection.

      GECS added $3.1 billion to its equipment leased to others during 1993.

    *    INTANGIBLE ASSETS were $10.4 billion at year-end 1993. The majority
of this consolidated total was GE's intangibles, which were $6.5 billion,
about the same as the end of 1992. GECS' intangibles increased $1.0 billion,
most of which was related to acquisitions in the annuity and mortgage-
servicing businesses.

    *    ALL OTHER ASSETS totaled $24.7 billion at year-end 1993, up $8.0
billion from the end of 1992. The principal reason for GE's increase of $2.9
billion was the investment in the convertible preferred stock of and
receivables due from Martin Marietta Corporation in connection with transfer
of the Aerospace businesses. GECS' increase of $5.1 billion related
principally to assets acquired for resale, including mortgages held for resale
associated with the mortgage-servicing businesses and purchases of real estate
assets from Resolution Trust Corporation and other institutions.

    *    TOTAL BORROWINGS on a consolidated basis aggregated $90.4 billion at
December 31, 1993, compared with $81.8 billion at the end of 1992. The major
debt-rating agencies evaluate the financial condition of GE and of GE Capital
(GECS' major public borrowing entity) differently because of their distinct
business characteristics. Using criteria appropriate to each and considering
their combined strength, those major rating agencies continue to give the
highest ratings to debt of both GE and GE Capital.

      GE has agreed to make payments to GE Capital to the extent necessary to
cause GE Capital's consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges to be not
less than 1.10. For the years 1993, 1992 and 1991, such ratios were 1.62, 1.44
and 1.34, respectively, substantially above the level at which payout would be
required. Three years advance notice is required to terminate this agreement.

      GE's total borrowings were $4.8 billion at year-end 1993 ($2.4 billion
short-term, $2.4 billion long-term), a decrease of about $2.1 billion from
year-end 1992. The decrease was possible as a result of cash provided from
continuing operating activities as well as from transfer of the Aerospace
businesses. GE's total debt at the end of 1993 equaled 15.5% of total capital,
down 6.9 points from the end of 1992.

      GECS' total borrowings were $85.9 billion at December 31, 1993, of which
$60.0 billion was due in 1994 and $25.9 billion was due in subsequent years.
Comparable amounts at the end of 1992 were: $75.1 billion total; $53.2 billion
due within one year; and $21.9 billion due thereafter. GECS' composite
interest rates are discussed on page 36. Individual GECS borrowings are
structured within overall asset/liability interest rate and currency risk
management strategies. Interest rate and currency swaps form an integral part
of the Company's goal of achieving the lowest

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  GE BORROWINGS AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTED
<CAPTION>
 1989              1990              1991              1992              1993
<C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
21.04%            23.55%            26.18%            22.39%            15.50%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-16

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 41
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

borrowing costs for particular funding strategies. Counterparty credit risk is
closely monitored - approximately 90% of the notional amount of swaps
outstanding at December 31, 1993, was with counterparties having credit
ratings of Aa/AA or better. A large portion of GECS' borrowings was commercial
paper ($46.3 billion and $42.2 billion at the end of 1993 and 1992,
respectively). Most of this commercial paper is issued by GE Capital. The
average remaining terms and interest rates of GE Capital's commercial paper
were 35 days and 3.39% at the end of 1993 compared with 34 days and 3.57% at
the end of 1992. GE Capital's ratio of debt to equity (leverage) was 7.59 to 1
at the end of 1993 compared with 7.91 to 1 at the end of 1992. Excluding net
unrealized gains on investment securities included in equity, GE Capital's
leverage was 7.96 to 1 at the end of 1993.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Because cash management activities of GE and GECS are separate and distinct,
it is more useful to review cash flows statements separately.

GE

GE's cash and equivalents aggregated $1.5 billion at the end of 1993, higher
by $0.3 billion than at the end of 1992. During 1993, GE generated $5.2
billion in cash from its continuing operating activities and $1.0 billion from
discontinued operations. This provided resources to pay $2.2 billion in
dividends to share owners, to reduce total debt by $2.1 billion and to invest
$1.6 billion in new plant and equipment. Management continually evaluates
financing alternatives. Because of attractive short-term interest rates, it
elected to maintain relatively high short-term debt levels, resulting, as in
the previous two years, in an excess of current liabilities over current
assets.

      Operating activities are the principal source of GE's cash flows from
continuing operations. Over the past three years, operating activities have
provided more than $13.4 billion of cash. Principal ongoing applications are
payment of dividends to share owners ($5.9 billion total over the past three
years) and investment in new plant and equipment ($5.2 billion total over the
past three years). In addition, the Company repurchased and placed into
treasury $3.1 billion of its common stock during the past three years. GE
concluded its major share repurchase program at $5.0 billion, but it continues
to acquire shares to meet benefit and compensation plan needs (about $0.4
billion annually). Expenditures for new plant and equipment are expected to
total about $1.6 billion for 1994 as the need for additional manufacturing
capacity is mitigated by continuing reductions in cycle times. Cash outlays
associated

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  TOTAL ASSETS OF GECS (In billions)
<CAPTION>
   1989                   1990              1991              1992              1993
<C>                   <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
$90.928               $115.095          $127.814          $154.524          $211.730
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


with 1993 restructuring programs are expected to be about $0.3 billion in
1994.

      Based on past performance and current expectations, in combination with
the financial flexibility that comes with a strong balance sheet and the
highest credit ratings, management believes that GE is in a sound position to
continue making long-term investments for future growth, including selective
acquisitions and investments in joint ventures, to reduce current debt levels
and to grow dividends in line with earnings.

GECS

GECS' primary source of cash is financing activities involving the continued
rollover of short-term borrowings and appropriate addition of borrowings with
a reasonable balance of maturities. Over the past three years, GECS'
borrowings with maturities of 90 days or less have increased by $14.0 billion.
New borrowings of $40.2 billion having maturities longer than 90 days were
added during those years, while $25.6 billion of such longer-term borrowings
were retired. GECS also has generated significant cash from operating
activities, a total of $14.8 billion during the past three years.

      GECS' principal use of cash has been investing in assets to grow its
businesses. Of $40.9 billion that GECS invested over the past three years,
$16.1 billion was used for additions to financing receivables, $9.3 billion
was used to invest in new equipment, principally for lease to others, and $6.9
billion was for acquisitions of new businesses.

      With the financial flexibility that comes with excellent credit ratings,
management believes GECS is well positioned to meet the global needs of its
customers for capital and to continue providing GE share owners with good
returns.

                                     F-17

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 42

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA summarizes on the opposite page some data frequently
requested about General Electric Company. The data are divided into three
sections: upper portion - consolidated data; middle portion - GE data that
reflect various conventional measurements for industrial enterprises; and
lower portion - GECS data that reflect key information pertinent to capital
services.

GE'S TOTAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT expenditures were $1,955 million in 1993,
up $59 million from 1992. Of the 1993 expenditures, $1,297 million was from
GE's own funds, a slight decrease($56 million) from 1992, reflecting lower
spending for two mature programs in Aircraft Engines. Expenditures from funds
provided by customers (mainly the U.S. government) were $658 million in 1993,
$115 million more than the year before. The Aircraft Engines, Medical Systems,
Plastics and Power Systems businesses account for the largest share of GE's
research and development expenditures from both Company and customer funds.

GE'S TOTAL BACKLOG of firm unfilled orders at the end of 1993 was $22.9
billion, down $2.5 billion from year-end 1992. The decrease was more than
explained by orders related to transferred businesses and, as discussed on
page 34, Aircraft Engines. Orders constituting this backlog may be canceled or
deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to cancellation penalties. See
Industry Segments beginning on page 33 for further discussion on unfilled
orders of relatively long-cycle manufacturing businesses. About 42% of the
total unfilled orders at the end of 1993 was scheduled to be shipped in 1994,
with most of the remainder to be shipped in the two years after that. For
comparison, about 43% of the 1992 backlog was expected to be shipped in 1993.

REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, the operations of the Company, like those of
other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and
cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws.

      In 1993, GE had capital expenditures of about $140 million for projects
related to the environment. The comparable amount in 1992 was about $110
million. These amounts exclude expenditures for remediation actions, which are
principally expensed and discussed below. Capital expenditures for
environmental purposes have included pollution control devices such as
wastewater treatment plants, groundwater monitoring devices, air strippers or
separators, and incinerators at new and existing facilities constructed or
upgraded in the normal course of business. Consistent with policies stressing
environmental responsibility, average annual capital expenditures other than
for remediation projects are presently expected to range between $100 million
and $150 million over the next two years. This level is in line with existing
levels for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify
manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.

      The Company also is involved in a sizable number of remediation actions
to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such
statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless
of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site.
Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $80
million in 1993 compared with $85 million in 1992. It is presently expected
that remediation actions will require average annual expenditures in the range
of $80 million to $110 million over the next two years. Liabilities for
remediation costs are based on management's best estimate of future costs;
when there appears to be a range of possible costs with equal likelihood,
liabilities are based on the lower end of such range. Possible insurance
recoveries are not considered in estimating liabilities.

      It is difficult to estimate with any meaning the annual level of future
remediation expenditures because of the many uncertainties, including
uncertainties about the status of the law, regulation, technology and
information related to individual sites. Subject to the foregoing, management
believes that capital expenditures and remediation actions to comply with the
present laws governing environmental protection will not have a material
effect upon the Company's earnings, liquidity or competitive position. In
making this determination, management considered the fact that, if remediation
expenditures were to continue at the 1993 level, liabilities recorded at the
end of 1993 would be sufficient to cover expenditures through the end of the
century, and the probability of incurring more than nominal expenditures
beyond 2015 is remote. Of course, lower annual expenditures could be incurred
over a longer period without increasing the total expenditures.

<TABLE>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHART:  CONSOLIDATED EMPLOYMENT OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS AT YEAR END (In thousands)
<CAPTION>
                          1989              1990              1991              1992              1993
<S>                        <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
United States              192               188               178               173               163
Other countries             48                62                62                58                59
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-18

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 43

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
|SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

                                                                  ---------------------------------------------------------------
(Dollar amounts in millions; per-share amounts in dollars)          1993          1992           1991           1990         1989
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
   Revenues                                                    $  60,562     $  57,073      $  54,629      $  52,619    $  49,135
   Earnings from continuing operations                             4,424         4,305          3,984          3,889        3,503
   Earnings from discontinued operations                             753           420            451            414          436
   Earnings before accounting changes                              5,177         4,725          4,435          4,303        3,939
   Net earnings                                                    4,315         4,725          2,636          4,303        3,939
   Dividends declared                                              2,229         1,985          1,808          1,696        1,537
   Earned on average share owners' equity                          17.5%         20.9%          12.2%          20.2%        20.0%
   Per share
      Earnings from continuing operations                       $   5.18      $   5.02       $   4.58       $   4.38     $   3.88
      Earnings from discontinued operations                         0.88          0.49           0.52           0.47         0.48
      Earnings before accounting changes                            6.06          5.51           5.10           4.85         4.36
      Net earnings                                                  5.05          5.51           3.03           4.85         4.36
      Dividends declared                                            2.61          2.32           2.08           1.92         1.70
      Stock price range                                       107-80 7/8    87 1/2-72 3/4   78 1/8-53      75 1/2-50  64 3/4-43 1/2
   Total assets                                                  251,506       192,876        166,508        152,000      126,121
   Long-term borrowings                                           28,270        25,376         22,681         21,043       16,110
   Shares outstanding - average (in thousands)                   853,990       857,198        868,931        887,552      904,223
   Share owner accounts - average                                464,000       481,000        495,000        506,000      526,000
   Employees at year end
      United States                                              163,000       173,000        178,000        188,000      192,000
      Other countries                                             59,000        58,000         62,000         62,000       48,000
      Discontinued operations (primarily U.S.)                         -        37,000         44,000         48,000       52,000
                                                                --------      --------       --------       --------     --------
      Total employees                                            222,000       268,000        284,000        298,000      292,000
                                                                ========      ========       ========       ========     ========
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE DATA
   Short-term borrowings                                        $  2,391      $  3,448       $  3,482       $  2,721     $  1,696
   Long-term borrowings                                            2,413         3,420          4,332          4,048        3,947
   Minority interest                                                 355           350            353            288          283
   Share owners' equity                                           25,824        23,459         21,683         21,680       20,890
                                                                --------      --------       --------       --------     --------
      Total capital invested                                    $ 30,983      $ 30,677       $ 29,850       $ 28,737     $ 26,816
                                                                ========      ========       ========       ========     ========
   Return on average total capital invested                         15.2%         16.9%          11.1%          17.4%        17.0%
   Borrowings as a percentage of total capital invested             15.5%         22.4%          26.2%          23.6%        21.0%
   Working capital                                               $  (419)      $  (822)       $  (231)        $  813     $  2,125
   Property, plant and equipment additions                         1,588         1,445          2,164          2,102        2,073
   Year-end orders backlog                                        22,861        25,434         26,049         25,195       22,473
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GECS DATA
   Earnings before accounting change                            $  1,807      $  1,499       $  1,275       $  1,094       $  927
   Net earnings                                                    1,807         1,499          1,256          1,094          927
   Share owner's equity                                           10,809         8,884          7,758          6,833        6,069
   Borrowings from others                                         85,888        75,140         66,420         57,400       47,905
   Ratio of debt to equity (GE Capital)                           7.59:1        7.91:1         7.80:1         7.77:1       7.80:1
   Total assets of GE Capital                                   $117,939      $ 92,632       $ 80,528       $ 70,385      $58,696
   Reserve coverage on financing receivables                       2.63%         2.63%          2.63%          2.63%        2.63%
   Insurance premiums written                                   $  3,956      $  2,900       $  2,155       $  1,981     $  1,819
   Securities broker-dealer earned income                          4,861         4,022          3,346          2,923        2,897
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
See notes 6 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for information about the accounting changes in 1991 and 1993,
respectively. "GE" means the basis of consolidation as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS" means
General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have
been eliminated from the "consolidated information."
</TABLE>

                                     F-19

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 44

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The financial data in this report, including the audited financial
statements, have been prepared by management using the best available
information and applying judgment. Accounting principles used in preparing
the financial statements are those that are generally accepted in the
United States.

      Management believes that a sound, dynamic system of internal
financial controls that balances benefits and costs provides the best
safeguard for Company assets. Professional financial managers are
responsible for implementing and overseeing the financial control system,
reporting on management's stewardship of the assets entrusted to it by
share owners and maintaining accurate records.

      GE is dedicated to the highest standards of integrity, ethics and
social responsibility. This dedication is reflected in written policy
statements covering, among other subjects, environmental protection,
potentially conflicting outside interests of employees, compliance with
antitrust laws, proper business practices, and adherence to the highest
standards of conduct and practices in transactions with the U.S.
government. Management continually emphasizes to all employees that even
the appearance of impropriety can erode public confidence in the Company.
Ongoing education and communication programs and review activities such as
those conducted by the Company's Policy Compliance Review Board are
designed to create a strong compliance culture - one that encourages
employees to raise their policy questions and concerns and prohibits
retribution for doing so.

      KPMG Peat Marwick provide an objective, independent review of
management's discharge of its obligations relating to the fairness of
reporting operating results and financial condition. Their report for 1993
appears below.

      The Audit Committee of the Board (consisting solely  of Directors
from outside GE) maintains an ongoing appraisal - on behalf of share owners
- - of the activities and independence of the Company's independent auditors,
the activities of its internal audit staff, financial reporting process,
internal financial controls and compliance with key Company policies.

John F. Welch, Jr.                 Dennis D. Dammerman
Chairman of the Board and          Senior Vice President
Chief Executive Officer            Finance
February 11, 1994

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

TO SHARE OWNERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY

We have audited the financial statements of General Electric Company and
consolidated affiliates as listed in Item 14(a)(1) on page 23.  In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
also have audited the financial statement schedules as listed in Item
14(a)(2) on page 23.  These consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of General Electric Company
and consolidated affiliates at December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-
year period ended December 31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in notes 1 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Company in 1993 adopted required changes in its methods of accounting
for investments in certain securities and for postemployment benefits. As
discussed in note 6, the Company in 1991 adopted a required change in its
method of accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions.



KPMG Peat Marwick
Stamford, Connecticut
February 11, 1994
                                     F-20

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 45

 --------------------------------------------------------------------------
|
| NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

CONSOLIDATION. The consolidated financial statements represent the adding
together of all affiliates - companies that General Electric directly or
indirectly controls, either through majority ownership or otherwise.
Results of associated companies - companies that are not controlled but are
20% to 50% owned - are included in the financial statements on a "one-line"
basis.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION. Financial data and related measurements
are presented in the following categories.

    *    GE. This represents the adding together of all affiliates other
than General Electric Capital Services, Inc. ("GECS"), which is presented
on a one-line basis.

    *    GECS. This affiliate owns all of the common stock of General
Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital), Employers Reinsurance
Corporation (ERC) and Kidder, Peabody Group Inc. (Kidder, Peabody). These
affiliates and their respective affiliates are consolidated in the GECS
columns and constitute its business.

    *    CONSOLIDATED. These data represent the adding together of GE and
GECS.

      The effects of transactions among related companies within and
between each of the above-mentioned groups are eliminated. Transactions
between GE and GECS are not material.

SALES OF GOODS AND SERVICES. A sale is recorded when title passes to the
customer or when services are performed in accordance with contracts.

GECS' REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS ("EARNED INCOME"). Income on all loans is
recognized on the interest method. Accrual of interest income is suspended
when collection of an account becomes doubtful, generally after the account
becomes 90 days delinquent.

      Financing lease income, which includes residual values and investment
tax credits, is recorded on the interest method so as to produce a level
yield on funds not yet recovered. Unguaranteed residual values included in
lease income are based primarily on periodic independent appraisals of the
values of leased assets remaining at expiration of the lease terms.

      Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the terms of underlying leases.

      Origination, commitment and other nonrefundable fees related to
fundings are deferred and recorded in earned income on the interest method.
Commitment fees related to loans not expected to be funded and line-of-
credit fees are deferred and recorded in earned income on a straight-line
basis over the period to which the fees relate. Syndication fees are
recorded in earned income at the time related services are performed unless
significant contingencies exist.

      Premiums on short-duration insurance contracts are reported as earned
income over the terms of the related reinsurance treaties or insurance
policies. In general, earned premiums are calculated on a pro rata basis or
are determined based on reports received from reinsureds. Premium
adjustments under retrospectively rated reinsurance contracts are recorded
based on estimated losses and loss expenses, including both case and
incurred-but-not-reported reserves. Revenues on long-duration insurance
contracts are reported as earned when due. Premiums received under annuity
contracts are not reported as revenues but as annuity benefits - a
liability - and are adjusted according to terms of the respective policies.

      Kidder, Peabody's proprietary securities and commodities
transactions, unrealized gains and losses on open contractual commitments
(principally financial futures), forward contracts on U.S. government and
federal agency securities and when-issued securities are recorded on a
trade-date basis. Customer transactions and related revenues and expenses,
investment banking revenues from management fees, sales concessions and
underwriting fees are recorded on a settlement-date basis. Advisory fees
are recorded as revenues when services are substantially completed and the
revenue is reasonably determinable.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION. The cost of most of GE's manufacturing plant
and equipment is depreciated using an accelerated method based primarily on
a sum-of-the-years digits formula. If manufacturing plant and equipment is
subject to abnormal economic conditions or obsolescence, additional
depreciation is provided.

      The cost of GECS' equipment leased to others on operating leases is
amortized, principally on a straight-line basis, to estimated net salvage
value over the lease term  or over the estimated economic life of the
equipment. Depreciation of property and equipment for GECS' own use is
recorded on either a sum-of-the-years digits formula or a straight-line
basis over the lives of the assets.

RECOGNITION OF LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND INVESTMENTS. GE Capital
maintains an allowance for losses on financing receivables at an amount
that it believes is sufficient to provide adequate protection against
future losses in the portfolio. When collateral is formally or
substantively repossessed in satisfaction of a loan, the receivable is
written down against the allowance for losses to estimated fair value and
transferred to other assets. Subsequent to such transfer, these assets are
carried at the lower of cost or estimated current fair value. This
accounting has been employed principally for highly leveraged transactions
(HLT) and real estate loans.

                                     F-21

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 46

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

      See note 8 for further information on GECS' allowance for losses on
financing receivables.

CASH EQUIVALENTS. Marketable securities with original maturities of three
months or less are included in cash equivalents unless held for trading or
investment.

INVESTMENT AND TRADING SECURITIES. On December 31, 1993,  the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115,
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, which
requires that investments in debt securities and marketable equity
securities be designated as trading, held-to-maturity or available-for-
sale. Trading securities are reported at fair value, with changes in fair
value included in earnings. Investment securities include both available-
for-sale and held-to-maturity securities. Available-for-sale securities are
reported at fair value, with net unrealized gains and losses that would be
available to share owners included in equity. Held-to-maturity debt
securities are reported at amortized cost. See notes 10 and 11 for a
discussion of the classification and reporting of these securities at
December 31, 1992. For all investment securities, unrealized losses that
are other than temporary are recognized in earnings.

SECURITIES SOLD UNDER AGREEMENTS TO REPURCHASE (REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS) AND
SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENTS TO RESELL (REVERSE REPURCHASE
AGREEMENTS). Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are entered into
by Kidder, Peabody and treated as financing transactions, carried at the
contract amount at which the securities subsequently will be resold or
reacquired. Repurchase agreements relate either to marketable securities,
which are carried at market value, or to securities obtained pursuant to
reverse repurchase agreements. It is Kidder, Peabody's policy to take
possession of securities subject to reverse repurchase agreements, to
monitor the market value of the underlying securities in relation to the
related receivable, including accrued interest, and to obtain additional
collateral when appropriate.

INVENTORIES. Virtually all of GE's U.S. inventories are stated on a last-
in, first-out (LIFO) basis; other inventories are primarily stated on a
first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. None of the inventories exceed realizable
values.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Goodwill is amortized over its estimated period of
benefit and other intangible assets over their estimated lives. The
amortization period does not exceed 40 years, and amortization is generally
on a straight-line basis. Goodwill in excess of associated expected
operating cash flows is considered to be impaired and is written down to
fair value.

DEFERRED INSURANCE ACQUISITION COSTS. For the property and casualty
business, deferred insurance acquisition costs are amortized pro rata over
the contract periods in which the related premiums are earned. For the life
insurance business, these costs are amortized over the premium-paying
periods of the contracts in proportion either to anticipated premium income
or to gross profit, as appropriate. For certain annuity contracts, such
costs are amortized on the basis of anticipated gross profits. For other
lines of business, acquisition costs are amortized over the life of the
related insurance contracts. Deferred insurance acquisition costs are
reviewed for recoverability; for short-duration contracts, anticipated
investment income is considered in making recoverability evaluations.

NOTE 2 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

On April 2, 1993, General Electric Company transferred GE's Aerospace
business segment, GE Government Services, Inc., and an operating component
of GE that operated Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory under a contract with
the U.S. Department of Energy to a new company controlled by the
shareholders of Martin Marietta Corporation in a transaction valued at $3.3
billion. The transfer resulted in a gain of $678 million after taxes of
$752 million. Net assets of discontinued operations at December 31, 1992,
have been segregated in the Statement of Financial Position. Summary
operating results of discontinued operations, excluding the above gain, are
as follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                                  1993         1992        1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>         <C>

Revenues                                       $996       $5,231      $5,631
Earnings before income taxes                    119          668         710
Provision for income taxes                       44          248         259
Net earnings from discontinued
   operations                                    75          420         451
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


NOTE 3 GE OTHER INCOME

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                              1993           1992           1991
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>            <C>
Royalty and technical
   agreements                              $371           $384           $394
Marketable securities and bank
   deposits                                  75             73             78
Associated companies                         65            195            156
Customer financing                           29             40             71
Other investments
   Dividends                                 50             18              3
   Interest                                  21             22             18
Other sundry items                          119             80             78
                                           ----           ----           ----
                                           $730           $812           $798
                                           ====           ====           ====
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-22
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 47

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 4 GECS REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                             1993           1992           1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>            <C>
Time sales, loan, investment
   and other income                    $11,999        $10,464         $9,790
Financing leases                         2,315          2,151          1,836
Operating lease rentals                  3,267          2,444          2,205
Premium and commission
   income of insurance affiliates        3,697          2,687          2,008
Commissions and fees of
   securities broker-dealer                859            694            560
                                      --------       --------       --------
                                       $22,137        $18,440        $16,399
                                      ========       ========       ========
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Included in earned income from financing leases were gains on the
sale of equipment at lease completion of $145 million in 1993, $126 million
in 1992 and $147 million in 1991.

      Noncancelable future rentals due from customers for equipment on
operating leases as of December 31, 1993, totaled $6,133 million and are
due as follows: $2,036 million in 1994; $1,455 million in 1995; $879
million in 1996; $458 million in 1997; $316 million in 1998; and $989
million thereafter.

NOTE 5 SUPPLEMENTAL COST DETAILS

Total expenditures for research and development were $1,955 million, $1,896
million and $1,866 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively. The
Company-funded portion aggregated $1,297 million in 1993, $1,353 million in
1992 and $1,196 million in 1991.

      Rental expense under operating leases was as follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                            1993           1992           1991
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>
GE                                       $635           $683           $675
GECS                                      498            331            169
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      At December 31, 1993, minimum rental commitments under noncancelable
operating leases aggregated $2,380 million and $3,579 million for GE and
GECS, respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years are as
follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)    1994        1995        1996           1997           1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>              <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>
GE               $364        $274        $182           $144           $134
GECS              404         364         340            319            296
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      GE's selling, general and administrative expense totaled $5,124
million, $5,319 million and $5,422 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively.

NOTE 6 PENSION AND OTHER RETIREE BENEFITS

GE and its affiliates sponsor a number of pension, retiree health and life
insurance and other retiree benefit plans. Principal plans are discussed
below; other plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate.

      Effective January 1, 1991, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106,
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,
using the immediate recognition transition option. The transition effect of
this accounting change was a reduction in 1991 net earnings of $1,799
million ($2.07 per share).

PRINCIPAL PENSION PLANS are the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary
Pension Plan.

      The GE Pension Plan covers substantially all GE employees in the
United States and approximately 45% of GECS employees. Generally, benefits
are based on the greater of a formula recognizing career earnings or a
formula recognizing length of service and final average earnings. Benefit
provisions are subject to collective bargaining. At the end of 1993, the GE
Pension Plan covered approximately 457,000 participants, including 143,000
employees, 139,000 former employees with vested rights to future benefits
and 175,000 retirees and beneficiaries receiving benefits.

      The GE Supplementary Pension Plan is an unfunded plan providing
supplementary retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service
U.S. employees.

PRINCIPAL RETIREE BENEFIT PLANS generally provide health and life insurance
benefits to employees who retire under the GE Pension Plan with 10 or more
years of service. Benefit provisions are subject to collective bargaining.
At the end of 1993, these plans covered approximately 246,000 retirees and
dependents.

TRANSFER OF AEROSPACE BUSINESSES in 1993 resulted in associated transfers
of GE Pension Plan assets of $1,169 million and projected benefit
obligations of $979 million to new pension plans. The 1993 gain on transfer
of discontinued operations included pension plan curtailment/settlement
losses of $125 million before income taxes and retiree health and life plan
curtailment/settlement gains of $245 million before income taxes.

                                     F-23

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 48

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS used during the past three years to determine costs
and benefit obligations for principal plans are shown below.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS
                                            1993        1992         1991
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>         <C>          <C>
Determination of cost/income
   for the year
      Discount rate                         8.5%        9.0%         9.0%
      Compensation increases                5.5         6.0          6.0
      Return on assets                      9.5         9.5          9.5
      Health care cost trend (a)           12.0        12.5         13.0
Determination of benefit obligation
   at year end
      Discount rate                        7.25         9.0          9.0
      Compensation increases               4.25         6.0          6.0
      Health care cost trend                9.5 (b)    12.0 (a)     12.5 (a)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a)   Gradually declining to 6.6% after 2049.
(b)   Gradually declining to 5.0% after 2022.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Increasing the health care cost trend rates by one percentage point
would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $23
million and would increase annual aggregate service and interest costs by
$3 million.

      Gains and losses that occur because actual experience differs from
actuarial assumptions are amortized over the average future service period
of employees. Amounts allocable to prior service for plan amendments are
amortized in a similar manner.

EMPLOYER COSTS for principal pension and retiree health and life insurance
benefit plans follow.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
COST (INCOME) FOR PENSION PLANS
(In millions)                              1993        1992         1991
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>         <C>          <C>
Benefit cost for service during
   the year - net of employee
   contributions                        $   452     $   494      $   446
Interest cost on benefit obligation       1,486       1,502        1,400
Actual return on plan assets             (3,221)     (1,562)      (4,331)
Unrecognized portion of return            1,066        (584)       2,272
Amortization                               (352)       (436)        (483)
                                        -------     -------     --------
Pension plan cost (income) (a)          $  (569)    $  (586)     $  (696)
                                        =======     =======     ========
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a)   Pension plan cost (income) for continuing operations was $(555)
      million for 1993, $(494) million for 1992 and $(576) million for
      1991.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COST (INCOME) FOR RETIREE HEALTH AND LIFE PLANS
(In millions)                                  1993           1992           1991
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>            <C>            <C>
Retiree health plans
   Benefit cost for service during
      the year                                $ 49           $ 62           $ 65
   Interest cost on benefit obligation         192            203            214
   Actual return on plan assets                 (3)            (4)            (9)
   Unrecognized portion of return                1              -              5
   Amortization                                (26)           (40)           (33)
                                              ----           ----           ----
   Retiree health plan cost                    213            221            242
                                              ----           ----           ----
Retiree life plans
   Benefit cost for service during
      the year                                  21             24             23
   Interest cost on benefit obligation         111            110            104
   Actual return on plan assets               (152)           (78)          (129)
   Unrecognized portion of return               42            (20)            39
   Amortization                                  7              2              -
                                              ----           ----           ----
   Retiree life plan cost                       29             38             37
                                              ----           ----           ----
Total (a)                                     $242           $259           $279
                                              ====           ====           ====
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a) Retiree health and life plan cost for continuing operations was $224
    million for 1993, $213 million for 1992 and $218 million for 1991.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

FUNDING POLICY for the GE Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient
to meet minimum funding requirements set forth in employee benefit and tax
laws plus such additional amounts as GE may determine to be appropriate
from time to time. GE has not made contributions since 1987 because the
fully funded status of the GE Pension Plan precludes current tax deduction
and because any Company contribution would require the Company to pay
annual excise taxes. Subject to tax laws, the present value of future life
insurance benefits for each eligible retiree is funded in the year of
retirement. In general, retiree health benefits are paid as covered
expenses are incurred.

      The following table compares the market-related value of assets with
the present value of benefit obligations, recognizing the effects of future
compensation and service. The market-related value of assets is based on
cost plus recognition of market appreciation and depreciation in the
portfolio over five years, a method that reduces the short-term impact of
market fluctuations.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FUNDED STATUS OF PRINCIPAL PLANS
(In millions)                                  1993           1992           1991
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>            <C>            <C>
Pension plans
   Market-related value of assets           $24,532        $24,204        $23,192
   Projected benefit obligation              20,796         17,999         17,355
Retiree health and life plans
   Market-related value of assets             1,252          1,220          1,124
   Accumulated postretirement
      benefit obligation                      4,120          3,743          3,675
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Assets in trust consist mainly of common stock and fixed-income
investments. GE common stock represents less than 2% of trust assets and is
held in part in an indexed portfolio.

      Schedules reconciling the benefit obligations for principal plans
with GE's recorded liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position are
shown on the following page.

                                     F-24

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 49

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RECONCILIATION OF BENEFIT OBLIGATION
WITH RECORDED LIABILITY               Pension plans                Retiree health plans        Retiree life plans
                                    ---------------------         ----------------------    ----------------------
December 31 (In millions)            1993           1992           1993            1992          1993        1992
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>            <C>             <C>             <C>           <C>         <C>
Benefit obligation                $20,796        $17,999         $2,586          $2,416        $1,534      $1,327
Fair value of trust assets        (27,193)      (26,466)            (13)            (32)       (1,317)     (1,221)
Unamortized balances
   SFAS No. 87 transition gain      1,077          1,231              -               -             -           -
   Experience gains (losses)        2,371          4,939           (654)           (394)         (206)        (21)
   Plan amendments                   (395)          (518)           580             764             -           -
Recorded prepaid asset              3,840          3,310              -               -             -           -
                                  -------        -------         ------         -------        ------      ------
Recorded liability                $   496        $   495         $2,499          $2,754        $   11      $   85
                                  =======        =======         ======         =======        ======      ======
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      The portion of the projected benefit obligation representing the
accumulated benefit obligation for pension plans was $19,890 million and
$16,975 million at the end of 1993 and 1992, respectively. The vested
benefit obligation for pension plans was $19,732 million and $16,799
million at the end of 1993 and 1992, respectively.

      Details of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation are
shown below.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACCUMULATED POSTRETIREMENT
BENEFIT OBLIGATION
December 31 (In millions)                       1993                1992
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                 <C>
Retiree health plans
   Retirees and dependents                    $2,017              $1,789
   Employees eligible to retire                  119                 137
   Other employees                               450                 490
                                              ------              ------
                                              $2,586              $2,416
                                              ======              ======
Retiree life plans
   Retirees and dependents                    $1,147                $907
   Employees eligible to retire                   79                  83
   Other employees                               308                 337
                                              ------              ------
                                              $1,534              $1,327
                                              ======              ======
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 7 INTEREST AND OTHER FINANCIAL CHARGES

GE. Interest capitalized, principally on major property, plant and
equipment projects, was $21 million in 1993, $29 million in 1992 and $33
million in 1991.

GECS. Interest and discount expense reported in the Statement of Earnings
is net of interest income on temporary investments of excess funds ($42
million, $48 million and $54 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively)
and capitalized interest ($5 million, $6 million and $8 million in 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively).

NOTE 8 GECS ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES

GECS allowance for losses on financing receivables represented 2.63% of
total financing receivables at year-end 1993 and 1992. The allowance for
small-balance receivables is determined principally on the basis of actual
experience during the preceding three years. Further allowances are
provided to reflect management's judgment of additional loss potential. For
other receivables, principally the larger loans and leases, the allowance
for losses is determined primarily on the basis of management's judgment of
net loss potential, including specific allowances for known troubled
accounts. The table below shows the activity in the allowance for losses on
financing receivables during each of the past three years.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                        1993            1992            1991
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>             <C>             <C>
Balance at January 1               $1,607          $1,508          $1,360
Provisions charged to
   operations                         987           1,056           1,102
Net transfers related to
   companies acquired or sold         126              52             135
Amounts written off - net            (990)         (1,009)         (1,089)
                                   ------          ------          ------
Balance at December 31             $1,730          $1,607          $1,508
                                   ======          ======          ======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      All accounts or portions thereof deemed to be uncollectible or to
require an excessive collection cost are written off to the allowance for
losses. Small-balance accounts are progressively written down (from 10%
when more than three months delinquent to 100% when 9-12 months delinquent)
to record the balances at estimated realizable value. If at any time during
that period an account is judged to be uncollectible, such as in the case
of a bankruptcy, the uncollectible balance is written off. Large-balance
accounts are reviewed at least quarterly, and those accounts that are more
than three months delinquent are written down, if necessary, to record the
balances at estimated realizable value. Amounts written off in 1993 were
approximately 1.46% of average financing receivables outstanding during the
year, compared with 1.58% and 1.87% of average financing receivables
outstanding during 1992 and 1991, respectively.

                                     F-25

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 50

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 9 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                        1993            1992             1991
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>             <C>              <C>
GE
   Estimated amounts payable       $1,207          $  697           $1,088
   Deferred tax expense from
      temporary differences           120             762              311
   Investment credit deferred
      (amortized) - net               (17)            (27)             (39)
                                   ------          ------           ------
                                    1,310           1,432            1,360
                                   ------          ------           ------
GECS
   Estimated amounts payable
      (recoverable)                   507             374             (192)
   Deferred tax expense from
      temporary differences           341             167              555
   Investment credit deferred
      (amortized) - net                (7)             (5)              19
                                   ------          ------           ------
                                      841             536              382
                                   ------          ------           ------
CONSOLIDATED
   Estimated amounts payable        1,714           1,071              896
   Deferred tax expense from
      temporary differences           461             929              866
   Investment credit deferred
      (amortized) - net               (24)            (32)             (20)
                                   ------          ------           ------
                                   $2,151          $1,968           $1,742
                                   ======          ======           ======
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      GE includes GECS in filing a consolidated U.S. federal income tax
return. GECS' provision for estimated taxes payable (recoverable) includes
its effect on the consolidated return.

      Estimated consolidated amounts payable includes amounts applicable to
non-U.S. jurisdictions of $328 million, $294 million and $254 million in
1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

      SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, was adopted effective
January 1, 1992. The effect of adopting this new standard was not material.

      Deferred income tax balances reflect the impact of temporary
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their
tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when
taxes are actually paid or recovered. See note 23 for details.

      Except for certain earnings that GE intends to reinvest indefinitely,
provision has been made for the estimated U.S. federal income tax
liabilities applicable to undistributed earnings of affiliates and
associated companies.

      Based on location (not tax jurisdiction) of the business providing
goods and services, consolidated U.S. income before taxes was $5,924
million in 1993, $5,639 million in 1992 and $5,034 million in 1991. The
corresponding amounts for non-U.S. based operations were $651 million in
1993, $634 million in 1992 and $692 million in 1991.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RECONCILIATION OF U.S. FEDERAL                          Consolidated                          GE                       GECS
STATUTORY RATE TO ACTUAL TAX RATE                -------------------------      -----------------------     --------------------
                                                 1993      1992       1991      1993     1992      1991      1993   1992    1991
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>    <C>     <C>
Statutory U.S. federal income tax rate           35.0%     34.0%      34.0%     35.0%    34.0%     34.0%     35.0%  34.0%   34.0%
                                                 ----      ----       ----      ----     ----      ----      ----   ----    ----
Increase (reduction) in rate resulting from:
   Inclusion of after-tax earnings of GECS
      in before-tax earnings of GE                  -         -          -     (11.0)    (8.9)     (8.1)        -      -       -
   Rate increase - deferred taxes                 1.5         -          -      (0.2)       -         -       4.3      -       -
   Amortization of goodwill                       1.5       1.3        1.4       1.1      0.9       1.0       1.2    1.4     1.6
   Tax-exempt income                             (2.8)     (2.6)      (2.9)        -        -         -      (6.8)  (8.1)  (10.1)
   Foreign Sales Corporation tax benefits        (1.2)     (1.1)      (1.1)     (1.4)    (1.2)     (1.2)        -      -       -
   Dividends received not fully taxable          (0.7)     (0.3)      (0.4)     (0.3)       -         -      (1.0)  (1.0)   (1.3)
   All other - net                               (0.6)      0.1       (0.6)     (0.4)     0.2      (0.3)     (0.9)     -    (1.1)
                                                 ----      ----       ----      ----     ----      ----      ----   ----    ----
                                                 (2.3)     (2.6)      (3.6)    (12.2)    (9.0)     (8.6)     (3.2)  (7.7)  (10.9)
                                                 ----      ----       ----      ----     ----      ----      ----   ----    ----
Actual income tax rate                           32.7%     31.4%      30.4%     22.8%    25.0%     25.4%     31.8%  26.3%   23.1%
                                                 ====      ====       ====      ====     ====      ====      ====   ====    ====
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



NOTE 10 GECS TRADING SECURITIES

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                       1993                1992
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>                 <C>
U.S. government and federal agency
   securities                                $19,543             $16,172
Corporate stocks, bonds and non-U.S.
   securities                                  8,969               5,960
Mortgage loans                                 1,292                 974
State and municipal securities                   361               1,048
                                             -------             -------
                                             $30,165             $24,154
                                             =======             =======
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
      The balance of GECS' trading securities at December 31, 1992,
included investments in equity securities held by insurance affiliates at a
fair value of $1,505 million, with unrealized pretax gains of $94 million
(net of unrealized pretax losses of $37 million) included in equity. At
December 31, 1993, equity securities held by insurance affiliates were
classified as investment securities (see note 11).

      A significant portion of GECS' trading securities at December 31,
1993, was pledged as collateral for bank loans and repurchase agreements in
connection with securities broker-dealer operations.

                                     F-26

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 51

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 11 INVESTMENT SECURITIES

GE's investment securities were classified as available-for-sale at year-
end 1993 and 1992. Carrying value was substantially the same as fair value
at both year ends.

      At December 31, 1993, GECS' investment securities were classified as
available-for-sale and reported at fair value, including net unrealized
gains of $1,261 million before taxes. At December 31, 1992, investment
securities of $9,033 million were classified as available-for-sale and were
reported at the lower of aggregate amortized cost or fair value. The
balance of the 1992 investment securities portfolio was carried at
amortized cost.

      A summary of GECS' investment securities follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GECS INVESTMENT SECURITIES
                                         Estimated             Gross           Gross
                        Amortized             fair        unrealized      unrealized
(In millions)                cost            value          gains (a)     losses (a)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                       <C>              <C>                 <C>             <C>
DECEMBER 31, 1993
Corporate, non-U.S.
   and other              $11,448          $11,595            $  206          $ (59)
State and municipal         8,859            9,636               786             (9)
Mortgage-backed             2,487            2,507                31            (11)
Equity                      1,517            1,826               393            (84)
U.S. government and
   federal agency           1,220            1,228                15             (7)
                          -------          -------           -------          -----
                          $25,531          $26,792           $ 1,431          $(170)
                          =======          =======           =======          =====
DECEMBER 31, 1992
Corporate, non-U.S.
   and other              $ 4,097          $ 4,167           $    70          $    -
State and municipal         6,626            6,951               339            (14)
Mortgage-backed               246              252                 7             (1)
U.S. government and
   federal agency             255              264                10             (1)
                          -------          -------           -------          -----
                          $11,224          $11,634           $   426          $ (16)
                          =======          =======           =======          =====
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a) December 31, 1992, amounts include gross unrealized gains and losses
    of $32 million and $5 million, respectively, on investment securities
    carried at amortized cost.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Contractual maturities of debt securities, other than mortgage-backed
securities, at December 31, 1993, are shown below.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------
GECS CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES
(EXCLUDING MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES)                   Estimated
                                       Amortized              fair
(In millions)                               cost             value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>               <C>
Due in
   1994                                  $ 2,665           $ 2,696
   1995-1998                               4,326             4,476
   1999-2003                               4,316             4,429
   2004 and later                         10,220            10,858
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      It is expected that actual maturities will differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain
obligations, sometimes without call or prepayment penalties. Proceeds from
sales of investment securities in 1993 were $6,112 million ($3,514 million
in 1992 and $2,814 million in 1991). Gross realized gains were $173 million
in 1993 ($171 million in 1992 and $106 million in 1991). Gross realized
losses were $34 million in 1993 ($4 million in 1992 and $9 million in
1991).

NOTE 12 GE CURRENT RECEIVABLES

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                  1993              1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>               <C>
Aircraft Engines                         $1,860            $2,047
Appliances                                  456               446
Broadcasting                                431               463
Industrial                                1,161             1,150
Materials                                 1,060               719
Power Systems                             2,083             1,389
Technical Products and Services             548               696
All Other                                   243               232
Corporate                                   889               498
                                         ------            ------
                                          8,731             7,640
Less allowance for losses                  (170)             (178)
                                         ------            ------
                                         $8,561            $7,462
                                         ======            ======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Of the total receivables balances at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
$5,719 million and $5,284 million, respectively, were from sales of goods
and services to customers, and $292 million and $170 million, respectively,
were from transactions with associated companies.

      Current receivables of $402 million at year-end 1993 and $256 million
at year-end 1992 arose from sales, principally of aircraft engine goods and
services, on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government, which
is GE's largest single customer (about 8%, 9% and 10% of GE's sales of
goods and services were to the U.S. government in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively). Current receivables from sales on open account of aircraft
engine goods and services to airline industry customers were $418 million
and $651 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

      To reduce political and credit risks, certain long-term international
medical equipment customer receivables are sold with partial credit
recourse. Proceeds from such sales were $89 million, $71 million and $13
million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively; balances outstanding were
$146 million and $82 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

                                     F-27

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 52

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 13 GE INVENTORIES

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                  1993              1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>               <C>
Raw materials and work in process        $2,983            $3,598
Finished goods                            2,314             2,596
Unbilled shipments                          156               188
                                         ------            ------
                                          5,453             6,382
Less revaluation to LIFO                 (1,629)           (1,808)
                                         ------            ------
                                         $3,824            $4,574
                                         ======            ======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      LIFO revaluations decreased $179 million in 1993 compared with
decreases of $204 million and $141 million in 1992 and 1991, respectively.
Included in these changes were decreases of $101 million, $183 million and
$111 million (1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively) resulting from lower
inventory levels. There were modest cost decreases in 1993, 1992 and 1991.
At December 31, 1993, GE is obligated to acquire, under take-or-pay or
similar arrangements, about $250 million per year of raw materials at
market prices through 1998.

NOTE 14 GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES (INVESTMENT IN TIME SALES, LOANS AND
        FINANCING LEASES)

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                  1993              1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>               <C>
TIME SALES AND LOANS
   Specialized financing                $17,138           $18,725
   Consumer services                     18,732            15,267
   Mid-market financing                   5,514             3,952
   Equipment management                     438                71
                                        -------           -------
                                         41,822            38,015
   Deferred income                       (1,074)             (945)
                                        -------           -------
      Time sales and loans - net         40,748            37,070
                                        -------           -------
INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES
   Direct financing leases               22,063            20,890
   Leveraged leases                       2,867             3,035
                                        -------           -------
      Investment in financing leases     24,930            23,925
                                        -------           -------
                                         65,678            60,995
                                        -------           -------
Less allowance for losses                (1,730)           (1,607)
                                        -------           -------
                                        $63,948           $59,388
                                        =======           =======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Time sales and loans represents transactions in a variety of forms,
including time sales, revolving charge and credit, mortgages, installment
loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans secured by business
assets. The portfolio includes time sales and loans carried at the
principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and time
sales and loans acquired on a discount basis carried at gross book value,
which includes finance charges. At year-end 1993 and 1992, specialized
financing and consumer services loans included $11,887 million and $10,526
million, respectively, for commercial real estate loans and $3,293 million
and $5,262 million, respectively, for highly leveraged transactions. Note
17 contains information on airline loans and leases.

      At December 31, 1993, contractual maturities for time sales and loans
over the next five years and after were: $16,287 million in 1994; $6,286
million in 1995; $4,350 million in 1996; $4,104 million in 1997; $3,112
million in 1998; and $7,683 million in 1999 and later - aggregating $41,822
million. Experience has shown that a substantial portion of receivables
will be paid prior to contractual maturity. Accordingly, the maturities of
time sales and loans are not to be regarded as forecasts of future cash
collections.

      Financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of
aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment,
data processing equipment, medical equipment, and other manufacturing,
power generation, mining and commercial equipment and facilities.

      As the sole owner of assets under direct financing leases and as the
equity participant in leveraged leases, GECS is taxed on total lease
payments received and is entitled to tax deductions based on the cost of
leased assets and tax deductions for interest paid to third-party
participants. GECS generally is entitled to any investment tax credit on
leased equipment and to any residual value of leased assets.

      Investment in direct financing and leveraged leases represents unpaid
rentals and estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment,
less related deferred income. Because GECS has no general obligation for
principal and interest on notes and other instruments representing third-
party participation related to leveraged leases, such notes and other
instruments have not been included in liabilities but have been offset
against the related rentals receivable. GECS' share of rentals receivable
on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share of its other participants
who also have a security interest in the leased equipment.

      GECS' investment in financing leases is shown on the following page.

                                     F-28

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 53

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES                         Total financing leases  Direct financing leases       Leveraged leases
                                                        ---------------------  -----------------------    -------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                    1993        1992         1993        1992       1993        1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Total minimum lease payments receivable                   $38,080     $38,172      $26,584     $25,390    $11,496     $12,782
Less principal and interest on third-party
   nonrecourse debt                                        (8,398)     (9,446)           -           -     (8,398)     (9,446)
                                                          -------     -------      -------     -------    -------     -------
   Rentals receivable                                      29,682      28,726       26,584      25,390      3,098       3,336
Estimated unguaranteed residual value of leased assets      4,490       4,352        3,323       3,115      1,167       1,237
   Less deferred income (a)                                (9,242)     (9,153)      (7,844)     (7,615)    (1,398)     (1,538)
                                                          -------     -------      -------     -------    -------     -------
INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES (as shown on the
   previous page)                                          24,930      23,925       22,063      20,890      2,867       3,035
Less amounts to arrive at net investment
   Allowance for losses                                      (538)       (560)        (464)       (481)       (74)        (79)
   Deferred taxes arising from financing leases            (4,917)     (4,553)      (2,157)     (1,986)    (2,760)     (2,567)
                                                          -------     -------      -------     -------    -------     -------
NET INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES                        $19,475     $18,812      $19,442     $18,423    $    33     $   389
                                                          =======     =======      =======     =======    =======     =======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a) Total financing lease deferred income is net of deferred initial direct costs of $83 million and $73 million for 1993 and
    1992, respectively.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      At December 31, 1993, contractual maturities for rentals receivable
over the next five years and after were: $6,417 million in 1994; $5,426
million in 1995; $3,919 million in 1996; $2,570 million in 1997; $1,720
million in 1998 and $9,630 million in 1999 and later - aggregating $29,682
million. As with time sales and loans, experience has shown that a portion
of receivables will be paid prior to contractual maturity and these amounts
should not be regarded as forecasts of future cash flows.

      Under arrangements with customers, GE Capital has committed to lend
funds ($2,131 million and $1,794 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively) and has issued sundry financial guarantees and letters of
credit ($1,863 million and $1,693 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively). The above commitments and guarantees exclude those related
to commercial aircraft (see note 17). Note 21 discusses financial
guaranties of insurance affiliates.

      At December 31, 1993 and 1992, GE Capital was conditionally obligated
to advance $2,244 million and $2,236 million, respectively, principally
under performance-based standby lending commitments. GE Capital also was
obligated for $2,946 million and $2,147 million at year-end 1993 and 1992,
respectively, under standby liquidity facilities related to third-party
commercial paper programs, although management believes that the prospects
of being required to fund under such standby facilities are remote.

      Nonearning consumer time sales and loans, primarily private-label
credit card receivables, amounted to $391 million and $444 million at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively. A majority of these receivables
were subject to various loss-sharing arrangements that provide full or
partial recourse to the originating private-label entity. Nonearning and
reduced earning receivables other than consumer time sales and loans were
$509 million and $934 million at year-end 1993 and 1992, respectively.
Earnings of $11 million and $30 million realized in 1993 and 1992,
respectively, were $41 million and $75 million lower than would have been
reported had these receivables earned income in accordance with their
original terms.

NOTE 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
        (INCLUDING EQUIPMENT LEASED TO OTHERS)

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                            1993              1992
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                <C>               <C>
ORIGINAL COST
   GE
   Land and improvements                          $   395           $   375
   Buildings, structures and related
     equipment                                      5,370             5,398
   Machinery and equipment                         15,420            14,936
   Leasehold costs and manufacturing
     plant under construction                       1,170             1,183
   Other                                               86                86
                                                  -------           -------
                                                   22,441            21,978
                                                  -------           -------
   GECS
   Buildings and equipment                          1,850             1,733
   Equipment leased to others
     Aircraft                                      3,677             2,850
     Marine shipping containers                     2,985             2,584
     Vehicles                                       3,568             2,274
     Railroad rolling stock                         1,498             1,478
     Other                                          2,160             2,758
                                                  -------           -------
                                                   15,738            13,677
                                                  -------           -------
                                                  $38,179           $35,655
                                                  =======           =======
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION
   AND AMORTIZATION
   GE                                             $12,899           $12,046
   GECS
     Buildings and equipment                          814               673
     Equipment leased to others                     3,238             2,549
                                                  -------           -------
                                                  $16,951           $15,268
                                                  =======           =======
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Included in GECS' equipment leased to others at year-end 1993 was
$244 million of commercial aircraft off-lease ($94 million in 1992).

      Current-year amortization of GECS' equipment leased to others was
$1,395 million, $1,133 million and $1,055 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively.

                                     F-29

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 54

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 16 Intangible Assets

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                  1993              1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>               <C>

GE
   Goodwill                             $ 5,713           $ 5,873
   Other intangibles                        753               734
                                        -------           -------
                                          6,466             6,607
                                        -------           -------
GECS
   Goodwill                               2,133             1,841
   Other intangibles                      1,765             1,062
                                        -------           -------
                                          3,898             2,903
                                        -------           -------
                                        $10,364           $ 9,510
                                        =======           =======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      GE's intangible assets are shown net of accumulated amortization of
$1,760 million in 1993 and $1,476 million in 1992. GECS' intangible assets
are net of accumulated amortization of $878 million in 1993 and $646
million in 1992.

NOTE 17 ALL OTHER ASSETS

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                        1993              1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>               <C>
GE
   Investments
      Associated companies (a)                $ 1,336           $ 1,301
      Government and government-
         guaranteed securities                    293               274
      Other                                     1,639               390
                                              -------           -------
                                                3,268             1,965
   Prepaid pension asset                        3,840             3,310
   Other                                        3,269             2,230
                                              -------           -------
                                               10,377             7,505
                                              -------           -------
GECS
   Investments
      Assets acquired for resale                8,141             3,388
      Associated companies (b)                  2,079             1,720
      Other                                     1,756             2,216
                                              -------           -------
                                               11,976             7,324
   Deferred insurance acquisition costs           987               720
   Foreclosed real estate properties              213               304
   Other                                        1,121               848
                                              -------           -------
                                               14,297             9,196
                                              -------           -------
ELIMINATIONS                                        -               (76)
                                              -------           -------
                                              $24,674           $16,625
                                              =======           =======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a) Includes advances of $131 million and $196 million at December 31,
    1993 and 1992, respectively.
(b) Includes advances of $1,159 million and $687 million at December 31,
    1993 and 1992, respectively.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      In line with industry practice, sales of commercial jet aircraft
engines often involve long-term customer financing commitments. In making
such commitments, it is GE's general practice to require that it have, or
be able to establish, a secured position in the aircraft being financed.
Under such airline financing programs, GE had issued loans and guarantees
(principally guarantees) amounting to $1,201 million at year-end 1993 and
$974 million at year-end 1992; and it had entered into commitments totaling
$1.4 billion and $2.3 billion at year-end 1993 and 1992, respectively, to
provide financial assistance on future aircraft engine sales. Estimated
fair values of the aircraft securing these receivables and guarantees
exceeded the related account balances or guaranteed amounts at December 31,
1993. GECS acts as a lender and lessor to the commercial airline industry.
At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the aggregate amount of such GECS loans,
leases and equipment leased to others was $6,776 million and $5,978
million, respectively. In addition, GECS had issued financial guarantees
and funding commitments of $450 million at December 31, 1993 ($645 million
at year-end 1992) and had conditional commitments to purchase aircraft at a
cost of $865 million. These purchase commitments are subject to the
aircraft having been placed on lease under agreements, and with carriers,
acceptable to GECS prior to delivery.

      At year-end 1993, the National Broadcasting Company had $3,011
million of commitments to acquire broadcast material or the rights to
broadcast television programs that require payments through the year 2000.

      GECS' other investments included $75 million and $275 million at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively, of in-substance repossessions at
the lower of cost or estimated fair value previously included in financing
receivables. GECS' mortgage-servicing activities include the purchase and
resale of mortgages. GECS had open commitments to purchase mortgages
totaling $5,935 million and $2,963 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively, as well as open commitments to sell mortgages totaling $6,426
million and $1,777 million, respectively, at year-end 1993 and 1992. At
December 31, 1993 and 1992, mortgages sold with full or partial recourse to
GECS aggregated $2,526 million and $3,876 million, respectively.

                                     F-30

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 55

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 18 BORROWINGS

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS                              1993                            1992
                                        --------------------------        ----------------------
December 31                                               Average                        Average
(In millions)                            Amount              rate            Amount         rate
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>                  <C>            <C>            <C>
GE
   Commercial paper                     $   708              3.36%          $ 1,175        3.53%
   Payable to banks
      (principally non-U.S.)                588              6.41               456        8.73
   Notes to trust
      departments                           102              3.03               269        3.14
   Other (a)                                993                               1,548
                                        -------                             -------
                                          2,391                               3,448
                                        -------                             -------
GECS
   Commercial paper                      46,298              3.39            42,168        3.57
   Payable to banks                       4,957              3.59             4,516        4.20
   Notes to trust
      departments                         1,882              3.10             1,659        3.54
   Other (a)                              6,866                               4,840
                                        -------                             -------
                                         60,003                              53,183
                                        -------                             -------
ELIMINATIONS                               (259)                               (242)
                                        -------                             -------
                                        $62,135                             $56,389
                                        =======                             =======
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a)   Includes the current portion of long-term debt.
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Confirmed credit lines of approximately $3.1 billion had been
extended to GE by 40 banks at year-end 1993. Substantially all of GE's
credit lines are available to GE Capital and GECS in addition to their own
credit lines.

      At year-end 1993, GE Capital had committed lines of credit
aggregating $19.0 billion with 134 banks, including $6.0 billion of
revolving credit agreements pursuant to which GE Capital has the right to
borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. A total of $4.6 billion of GE
Capital's credit lines is available for use by GECS; $1.8 billion is
available for use by GE.

      During 1993, neither GE nor GECS borrowed under any of these credit
lines. Both compensate banks for credit facilities either in the form of
fees or a combination of balances and fees as agreed to with each bank.
Compensating balances and commitment fees were immaterial in each of the
past three years.

      Kidder, Peabody had established credit lines of $6.1 billion at
December 31, 1993, including $3.1 billion available on an unsecured basis.
Borrowings from banks were primarily unsecured demand obligations, at
interest rates approximating broker call loan rates, to finance inventories
of securities and to facilitate the securities settlement process.

      Aggregate amounts of long-term borrowings that mature during the next
five years, after deducting debt reacquired for sinking-fund needs, are as
follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)      1994        1995        1996        1997        1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>              <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
GE               $  819      $  258      $  627      $  511      $  584
GECS              6,421       6,204       4,868       2,971       3,566
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Outstanding balances in long-term borrowings at December 31, 1993 and
1992, were as follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
                                       Weighted
December 31                             average
(In millions)                     interest rate        Maturities              1993              1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>                 <C>               <C>
GE
Notes (a)                                  7.13%        1995-1998           $ 1,694           $ 2,298
Debentures/sinking-
   fund debentures                            -                 -                 -               300
Deep discount notes                           -                 -                 -               150
Industrial development/
   pollution control
   bonds (a)                               3.09         1995-2019               272               272
Other (a) (b)                                                                   447               400
                                                                            -------           -------
                                                                              2,413             3,420
                                                                            -------           -------
GECS
Senior notes
   Notes (a) (c)                           6.03         1995-2012            22,042            18,087
   Zero coupon/deep
      discount notes                      13.72         1995-2001             1,407             1,578
   Reset or remarketed
      notes (d)                            8.39         2007-2018             1,500             1,500
   Floating rate notes                      (e)         1995-2053               521               496
   Less unamortized
      discount/premium                                                         (344)             (464)
                                                                            -------           -------
                                                                             25,126            21,197
Subordinated notes (f)                     8.12         2006-2012               759               760
                                                                            -------           -------
                                                                             25,885            21,957
                                                                            -------           -------
ELIMINATIONS                                                                    (28)               (1)
                                                                            -------           -------
                                                                            $28,270           $25,376
                                                                            =======           =======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a)   At December 31, 1993, GE and GECS had agreed with others to exchange
      currencies on principal amounts equivalent to U.S. $498 million and
      $8,101 million, respectively, and related interest payments. GE and
      GECS also had entered into interest rate swaps with others related to
      interest on $610 million and $13,224 million, respectively. At
      December 31, 1992, GE and GECS had agreed with others to exchange
      currencies on principal amounts equivalent to U.S. $1,224 million and
      $6,499 million, respectively, and related interest payments. GE and
      GECS also had entered into interest rate swaps with others relating
      to interest on $2,352 million and $8,549 million, respectively.

(b)   Includes original issue premium and discount and a variety of
      obligations having various interest rates and maturities, including
      borrowings by parent operating components and all affiliate
      borrowings.

(c)   At December 31, 1993 and 1992, counterparties held options under
      which GECS can be caused to execute interest rate swaps associated
      with interest payments through 1999 on $500 million and $625 million,
      respectively.

(d)   Interest rates are reset at the end of the initial and each
      subsequent interest period. At each rate-reset date, GECS may redeem
      notes in whole or in part at its option. Current interest periods
      range from March 1994 to May 1996.

(e)   The rate of interest payable on each note is a variable rate based on
      the commercial paper rate each month. Interest is payable either
      monthly or semiannually at the option of GECS.

(f)   Includes $700 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, guaranteed by GE.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     F-31

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 56

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 19 GECS SECURITIES SOLD BUT NOT
        YET PURCHASED, AT MARKET


</TABLE>
<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                           1993              1992
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>               <C>
U.S. government                                  $12,789           $ 9,570
Corporate stocks, bonds and non-U.S.
   securities                                      2,528             1,802
State and municipal securities                        15                41
                                                 -------           -------
                                                 $15,332           $11,413
                                                 =======           =======
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


NOTE 20 GE ALL OTHER CURRENT COSTS
        AND EXPENSES ACCRUED

At year-end 1993 and 1992, this account included taxes accrued of $1,664
million and $1,460 million, respectively, and compensation and benefit
accruals (including the current portion of postretirement and
postemployment benefit accruals) of $1,311 million and $1,000 million,
respectively. Also included are amounts for product warranties, estimated
costs on shipments billed to customers and a wide variety of sundry items.

NOTE 21 INSURANCE RESERVES AND ANNUITY BENEFITS

Insurance reserves and annuity benefits represents policyholders' benefits,
unearned premiums and provisions for policy losses in GECS' insurance and
annuity businesses. The estimated liability for insurance losses and loss
expenses consists of both case and incurred-but-not-reported reserves.
Where experience is not sufficient, industry averages are used. Estimated
amounts of salvage and subrogation recoverable on paid and unpaid losses
are deducted from outstanding losses.

      The liability for future policy benefits of the life insurance
affiliates has been computed mainly by a net-level-premium method based on
assumptions for investment yields, mortality and terminations that were
appropriate at date of purchase or at the time the policies were developed,
including provisions for adverse deviations.

      Interest rates credited to annuity contracts in 1993 ranged from 3.7%
to 9.7%. For most annuities, interest rates to be credited are redetermined
by management on an annual basis.

      SFAS No. 113, Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-
Duration and Long-Duration Contracts,  was adopted during 1993. The
principal effect of this Statement was to report reinsurance receivables
and prepaid reinsurance premiums, a total of $1,818 million at December 31,
1993, as assets. Such amounts were reported as reductions of insurance
reserves at the end of 1992.

      Financial guaranties, principally by GE Capital's Financial Guaranty
Insurance Company, were $101.4 billion and $81.3 billion at year-end 1993
and 1992, respectively, before reinsurance of $17.3 billion and $13.7
billion, respectively. Mortgage insurance risk in force of GE Capital's
mortgage insurance operations aggregated $27.0 billion and $21.3 billion at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

NOTE 22 GE ALL OTHER LIABILITIES
        (INCLUDING POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS)

This account includes noncurrent compensation and benefit accruals at year-
end 1993 and 1992 of $4,507 million and $3,743 million, respectively. Other
noncurrent liabilities include amounts for product warranties, deferred
incentive compensation, deferred income and a wide variety of sundry items.

      The Company adopted SFAS No. 112, Employers' Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits, effective as of  January 1, 1993. This Statement
requires that employers recognize over the service lives of employees the
costs of postemployment benefits if certain conditions are met. The
principal effect for GE was to change the method of accounting for
severance benefits. Under the previous accounting policy, the total cost of
severance benefits was expensed when the severance event occurred.

      The cumulative effect of the accounting change as of January 1, 1993,
amounted to $1,306 million before taxes ($862 million, or $1.01 per share,
after taxes). Aside from the one-time effect of the adjustment, adoption of
SFAS No. 112 was not material to 1993 earnings, and there was no 1993 cash
flow impact.

                                     F-32

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 57

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 23 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES

Aggregate deferred tax amounts are summarized below.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                           1993              1992
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>               <C>
Assets
   GE                                            $ 3,547           $ 2,864
   GECS                                            2,204             1,810
                                                 -------           -------
                                                   5,751             4,674
                                                 -------           -------
Liabilities
   GE                                              3,248             2,535
   GECS                                            7,612             6,679
                                                 -------           -------
                                                  10,860             9,214
                                                 -------           -------
Net deferred tax liability                       $ 5,109           $ 4,540
                                                 =======           =======
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Principal components of the net deferred tax liability balances are
shown below for GE and GECS.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                           1993              1992
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>               <C>
GE
   Provisions for expenses                       $(2,219)          $(1,491)
   Retiree insurance plans                          (879)             (965)
   GE pension                                      1,170               957
   Depreciation                                      890               829
   Other - net                                       739               341
                                                  ------            ------
                                                    (299)             (329)
                                                  ------            ------
GECS
   Financing leases                                4,917             4,553
   Operating leases                                  966               811
   Net unrealized gains on securities                437                19
   Tax transfer leases                               340               329
   Provision for losses                             (831)             (715)
   Insurance reserves                               (370)             (344)
   AMT credit carryforwards                            -              (200)
   Other - net                                       (51)              416
                                                  ------            ------
                                                   5,408             4,869
                                                  ------            ------
Net deferred tax liability                        $5,109            $4,540
                                                  ======            ======
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Deferred taxes were determined under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes, which was adopted effective January 1, 1992.



NOTE 24 MINORITY INTEREST IN EQUITY
        OF CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES

Minority interest in equity of consolidated GECS affiliates includes 8,750
shares of $100 par value variable cumulative preferred stock issued by GE
Capital with a liquidation preference value of $875 million. Dividend rates
on this preferred stock ranged from 2.33% to 2.79% during 1993 and from
2.44% to 3.49% during 1992.

NOTE 25 SHARE OWNERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                           1993           1992          1991
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>            <C>            <C>
COMMON STOCK ISSUED
Balance at January 1 and
   December 31                       $   584        $   584       $   584
                                     =======        =======       =======
OTHER CAPITAL
Balance at January 1                    $755           $938        $1,061
Currency translation
   adjustments                          (279)          (209)         (175)
Unrealized gains on
   securities                            812             30            45
Gains (losses) on treasury
   stock dispositions                    110             (4)            7
                                     -------        -------       -------
Balance at December 31               $ 1,398        $   755       $   938
                                     =======        =======       =======
RETAINED EARNINGS
Balance at January 1                 $26,527        $23,787       $22,959
Net earnings                           4,315          4,725         2,636
Dividends declared                    (2,229)        (1,985)       (1,808)
                                     -------        -------       -------
Balance at December 31               $28,613        $26,527       $23,787
                                     =======        =======       =======
COMMON STOCK HELD IN
   TREASURY
Balance at January 1                 $ 4,407        $ 3,626       $ 2,924
Purchases                                770          1,206         1,112
Dispositions                            (406)          (425)         (410)
                                     -------        -------       -------
Balance at December 31               $ 4,771        $ 4,407       $ 3,626
                                     =======        =======       =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Authorized shares of common stock (par value $0.63) total
1,100,000,000 shares. Common shares issued and outstanding are summarized
in the table below.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHARES OF GE COMMON STOCK
December 31 (In thousands)             1993          1992           1991
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>           <C>            <C>
Issued                              926,564       926,564        926,564
In treasury                         (72,913)      (71,135)       (62,442)
                                    -------       -------        -------
Outstanding                         853,651       855,429        864,122
                                    =======       =======        =======
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      The current Proxy Statement includes a proposal recommended by the
Board of Directors on December 17, 1993, which, if approved by share
owners, would (a) increase the number of authorized shares of common stock
from 1,100,000,000 shares each with a par value of $0.63 to 2,200,000,000
shares each with a par value of $0.32 and

                                     F-33

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 58

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(b) split each unissued and issued common share, including shares held in
treasury, into two shares of common stock each with a par value of $0.32.

      GE has 50,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock ($1.00 par
value), but no such shares have been issued.

      The effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial statements
of non-U.S. affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are
included in other capital. Asset and liability accounts are translated at
year-end exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at
average rates for the period. The cumulative currency translation
adjustment was a $246 million reduction of other capital at December 31,
1993, compared with cumulative additions to other capital of $33 million
and $242 million at December 31, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

NOTE 26 OTHER STOCK-RELATED INFORMATION

Stock option plans, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and
restricted stock units are described in the Company's current Proxy
Statement. With certain restrictions, the Company can meet requirements for
stock option shares from either unissued or treasury shares.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCK OPTION INFORMATION                              Average per share
                                                  ---------------------
                           Shares subject         Option         Market
(Shares in thousands)           to option          price          price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance at January 1, 1993         24,082         $64.37         $85.50
Options granted                     8,790          91.80          91.80
Replacement options                   441          57.19          57.19
Options exercised                  (3,036)         56.65          95.14
Options terminated                   (600)         73.67              -
                                   ------
Balance at December 31, 1993       29,677          72.99         104.88
                                   ======
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      The replacement options replaced canceled SARs and have identical
terms thereto. At December 31, 1993, there were 3,529,125 SARs exercisable
at an average price of $75.32. There were 1,836,050 restricted stock shares
and restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 1993.

      At December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively, there were 8,069,046 and
8,755,078 shares available for grants of options, SARs, restricted stock
and restricted stock units. Under the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 0.95%
of the Company's issued common stock (including treasury shares) as of the
first day of each calendar year during which the Plan is in effect become
available for granting awards in such year.  Any unused portion, in
addition to shares allocated to awards that are canceled or forfeited, is
available for later years.

      Outstanding options and rights expire on various dates through
December 17, 2003. Restricted stock grants vest on various dates up to
normal retirement of grantees.

NOTE 27 GECS' BROKER-DEALER POSITIONS

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                           1993              1992
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>               <C>
INCLUDED IN GECS' OTHER RECEIVABLES
   Securities failed to deliver                   $2,315              $218
   Deposits paid for securities borrowed           1,944             1,976
   Clearing organizations and other                3,207               930
                                                  ------            ------
                                                  $7,466            $3,124
                                                  ======            ======
INCLUDED IN GECS' ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
   Securities failed to receive                   $1,701              $193
   Deposits received for securities loaned         1,390             1,051
   Clearing organizations and other                  275               100
                                                  ------            ------
                                                  $3,366            $1,344
                                                  ======            ======
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Kidder, Peabody, in conducting its normal operations, employs a wide
variety of financial instruments in order to balance its investment
positions. Management believes that the most meaningful measures of these
positions for a broker-dealer are the values at which the positions are
presented in the Statement of Financial Position in accordance with
securities industry practices.

      The following required supplemental disclosures of gross contract
terms are indicators of the nature and extent of such broker-dealer
positions and are not intended to portray the much smaller credit or
economic risk.

      At December 31, 1993, open commitments to sell mortgage-backed
securities amounted to $18,539 million ($17,191 million in 1992); open
commitments to purchase mortgage-backed securities amounted to $14,637
million ($13,131 million in 1992); interest rate swap agreements were open
for interest on $4,084 million ($6,038 million in 1992); commitments
amounting to $10,837 million ($6,711 million in 1992) were open under
options written to cover price changes in securities; the face amount of
open interest rate futures and forward contracts for currencies as well as
money market and other instruments amounted to $30,506 million ($10,936
million in 1992); contracts establishing limits on counterparty exposure to
interest rates were outstanding for interest on $1,610 million ($2,722
million in 1992); and firm underwriting commitments for the purchase of
stock or debt amounted to $3,311 million ($4,094 million in 1992).

                                     F-34

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 59

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 28  Supplemental Cash Flows Information

Changes in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and
dispositions of businesses. "Payments for principal businesses purchased"
in the Statement of Cash Flows is net of cash acquired and includes debt
assumed and immediately repaid in acquisitions.

      "All other operating activities" in the Statement of Cash Flows
consists principally of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals of
costs and expenses, amortization of premium and discount on debt, and
adjustments to assets such as amortization of goodwill and intangibles.

      The Statement of Cash Flows excludes certain noncash transactions
that had no significant effects on the investing or financing activities of
GE or GECS.

      Certain supplemental information for GECS' cash flows is shown below.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 31 (In millions)                                              1993            1992          1991
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                    <C>             <C>           <C>
CERTAIN BROKER-DEALER ACCOUNTS
   Trading securities                                                                  $ (7,517)       $ (5,966)     $ (5,463)
   Securities purchased under agreements to resell                                      (16,675)         (7,386)        4,006
   Securities sold under agreements to repurchase                                        20,655           7,841           349
   Securities sold but not yet purchased                                                  3,919           6,529          (440)
                                                                                       --------        --------      --------
                                                                                       $    382        $  1,018      $ (1,548)
                                                                                       ========        ========      ========
FINANCING RECEIVABLES
   Increase in loans to customers                                                      $(30,002)       $(27,069)     $(25,030)
   Principal collections from customers                                                  27,571          25,136        25,289
   Investment in equipment for financing leases                                          (7,204)         (7,758)       (8,829)
   Principal collections on financing leases                                              6,812           5,338         3,726
   Net change in credit card receivables                                                 (1,341)           (330)       (2,410)
                                                                                       --------        --------      --------
                                                                                       $ (4,164)       $ (4,683)     $ (7,254)
                                                                                       ========        ========      ========
ALL OTHER INVESTING ACTIVITIES
   Purchases of securities by insurance and annuity businesses                         $(10,488)       $ (6,865)     $ (6,002)
   Dispositions and maturities of securities by insurance and annuity businesses          7,698           6,200         5,415
   Other                                                                                 (4,124)         (3,003)       (1,538)
                                                                                       --------        --------      --------
                                                                                       $ (6,914)       $ (3,668)     $ (2,125)
                                                                                       ========        ========      ========
NEWLY ISSUED DEBT HAVING MATURITIES MORE THAN 90 DAYS
   Short-term (91-365 days)                                                            $  4,315          $4,456      $  4,863
   Long-term (over one year)                                                             10,885           6,699         6,317
   Long-term subordinated                                                                     -             450           250
   Proceeds - nonrecourse, leveraged lease debt                                              53             148         1,808
                                                                                       --------        --------      --------
                                                                                       $ 15,253        $ 11,753      $ 13,238
                                                                                       ========        ========      ========
REPAYMENTS AND OTHER REDUCTIONS OF DEBT HAVING MATURITIES MORE THAN 90 DAYS
   Short-term (91-365 days)                                                            $ (9,008)       $ (6,474)     $ (6,504)
   Long-term (over one year)                                                               (208)           (658)       (1,769)
   Long-term subordinated                                                                     -             (76)          (32)
   Principal payments - nonrecourse, leveraged lease debt                                  (312)           (272)         (280)
                                                                                       --------        --------      --------
                                                                                       $ (9,528)       $ (7,480)     $ (8,585)
                                                                                       ========        ========      ========
ALL OTHER FINANCING ACTIVITIES
   Proceeds from sales of investment and annuity contracts                             $    509        $      -      $      -
   Redemption of investment and annuity contracts                                          (578)              -             -
                                                                                       --------        --------      --------
                                                                                       $    (69)       $      -      $      -
                                                                                       ========        ========      ========
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-35
<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 60
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 29 INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  REVENUES
(In millions)                     For the years ended December 31
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         Total revenues                Intersegment revenues           External revenues
                                  ----------------------------    ----------------------------     ------------------------
                                   1993       1992       1991      1993        1992      1991       1993     1992      1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>     <C>        <C>      <C>       <C>
GE
   Aircraft Engines             $ 6,580    $ 7,368    $ 7,777     $  59       $  57     $  29    $ 6,521  $ 7,311   $ 7,748
   Appliances                     5,555      5,330      5,225         3           3         4      5,552    5,327     5,221
   Broadcasting                   3,102      3,363      3,121         -           -         1      3,102    3,363     3,120
   Industrial                     7,379      6,907      6,783       264         267       327      7,115    6,640     6,456
   Materials                      5,042      4,853      4,736        50          51        51      4,992    4,802     4,685
   Power Systems                  6,692      6,371      6,189       246         272       265      6,446    6,099     5,924
   Technical Products and
     Services                     4,174      4,674      4,686        18          68        99      4,156    4,606     4,587
   All Other                      2,043      1,749      1,545         -           -         -      2,043    1,749     1,545
   Corporate items and
     eliminations                  (208)      (361)      (468)     (640)       (718)     (776)       432      357       308
                                -------    -------    -------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
     Total GE                    40,359     40,254     39,594         -           -         -     40,359   40,254    39,594
                                -------    -------    -------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
GECS
   Financing                     12,399     10,544     10,069         -           -         -     12,399   10,544    10,069
   Specialty Insurance            4,862      3,863      2,989         -           -         -      4,862    3,863     2,989
   Securities Broker-Dealer       4,861      4,022      3,346         -           -         -      4,861    4,022     3,346
   All Other                         15         11         (5)        -           -         -         15       11        (5)
                                -------    -------    -------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
     Total GECS                  22,137     18,440     16,399         -           -         -     22,137   18,440    16,399
                                -------    -------    -------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
   Eliminations                  (1,934)    (1,621)    (1,364)        -           -         -     (1,934)  (1,621)   (1,364)
                                -------    -------    -------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
     Consolidated revenues      $60,562    $57,073    $54,629    $    -      $    -    $    -    $60,562  $57,073   $54,629
                                =======    =======    =======   =======     =======   =======    =======  =======   =======
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
"All Other" GE revenues consists primarily of GECS' earnings.
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  ASSETS                          PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                                                  (INCLUDING EQUIPMENT LEASED TO OTHERS)
(In millions)                    At December 31                   For the years ended December 31
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                              Depreciation, depletion and
                                                                            Additions                amortization
                                -----------------------------   -----------------------------  ----------------------------
                                   1993       1992       1991      1993        1992      1991       1993     1992      1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>      <C>       <C>
GE
   Aircraft Engines            $  5,329   $  6,153   $  6,649    $  208      $  276    $  371     $  339   $  294    $  295
   Appliances                     2,193      2,248      2,503       132         126       118        131      105       106
   Broadcasting                   3,742      3,736      3,886        56          52        70         98       82        84
   Industrial                     4,909      4,983      4,824       379         299       320        310      282       262
   Materials                      8,181      8,081      8,340       376         255       784        417      393       369
   Power Systems                  4,408      3,614      3,450       251         245       267        185      159       144
   Technical Products and
     Services                     2,179      2,393      2,629       126         118       148         89       74        98
   All Other                     11,604      9,719      8,750         1           1         6          3        5         5
   Corporate items and
     eliminations                 8,589      7,148      6,119        59          73        80         59       89        66
                               --------   --------   --------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
     Total GE                    51,134     48,075     47,150     1,588       1,445     2,164      1,631    1,483     1,429
                               --------   --------   --------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
GECS
   Financing                    106,854     82,207     74,554     3,352       4,761     3,688      1,545    1,259     1,161
   Specialty Insurance           18,915     14,624     11,812        15          17        11          9       13         8
   Securities Broker-Dealer      85,009     55,455     41,218        15          32        31         38       34        38
   All Other                        952      2,238        230        59         118        41         38       29        18
                               --------   --------   --------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
     Total GECS                 211,730    154,524    127,814     3,441       4,928     3,771      1,630    1,335     1,225
                               --------   --------   --------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
   Eliminations                 (11,358)    (9,723)    (8,456)        -           -         -          -      -           -
                               --------   --------   --------   -------     -------   -------    -------  -------   -------
     Consolidated totals       $251,506   $192,876   $166,508    $5,029      $6,373    $5,935     $3,261   $2,818    $2,654
                               ========   ========   ========   =======     =======   =======    =======  =======   =======
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
"All Other" GE assets consists primarily of investment in GECS.
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-36

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 61

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

A description of industry segments for General Electric Company and
consolidated affiliates follows.

    *    AIRCRAFT ENGINES. Jet engines and replacement parts and repair
services for all categories of commercial aircraft (short/medium,
intermediate and long-range); a wide variety of military planes, including
fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; and executive and commuter
aircraft. Sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government
agencies. Also, aircraft engine derivatives used as marine propulsion and
industrial power sources.

    *    APPLIANCES. Major appliances such as refrigerators, freezers,
electric and gas ranges, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave
ovens and room air conditioning equipment. Sold primarily in North America,
but also in global markets, under various GE and private-label brands.
Distributed to retail outlets, mainly for the replacement market, and to
building contractors and distributors for new installations.

    *    BROADCASTING. Primarily the National Broadcasting Company (NBC).
Principal businesses are furnishing of U.S. network television services to
more than 200 affiliated stations, production of television programs,
operation of six VHF television broadcasting stations, and investment and
programming activities in cable television.

    *    INDUSTRIAL. Lighting products (including a wide variety of lamps,
wiring devices and quartz products); electrical distribution and control
equipment; transportation systems products (including diesel-electric
locomotives, transit propulsion equipment and motorized wheels for off-
highway vehicles); electric motors and related products; a broad range of
electrical and electronic industrial automation products; and GE Supply, a
network of electrical supply houses. Markets are extremely varied. Products
are sold to commercial and industrial end users, original equipment
manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, railways and
transit authorities. Increasingly, products are developed for and sold in
global markets.

    *    MATERIALS. High-performance engineered plastics used in
applications such as automobiles and housings for computers and other
business equipment; ABS resins; silicones; superabrasives such as man-made
diamonds; and laminates. Sold worldwide to a diverse customer base
consisting mainly of manufacturers.

    *    POWER SYSTEMS. Products mainly for the generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity, including related installation,
engineering and repair services. Markets and competition are global. Steam
turbine-generators are sold to electric utilities, to the U.S. Navy, and,
for cogeneration, to industrial and other power customers. Marine steam
turbines and propulsion gears are sold to the U.S. Navy. Gas turbines are
sold principally as packaged power plants for electric utilities and for
industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. Power Systems
also includes power delivery and control products, such as transformers,
meters, relays, capacitors and arresters for the utility industry; nuclear
reactors; and fuel and support services for GE's installed boiling water
reactors.

    *    TECHNICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Medical systems such as magnetic
resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT) scanners, x-ray, nuclear
imaging, ultrasound and other diagnostic equipment sold worldwide to
hospitals and medical facilities. This segment also includes a full range
of computer-based information and data interchange services for internal
use and external commercial and industrial customers.

    *    GECS FINANCING. Operations of GE Capital as follows:

      Consumer services - private-label and bank credit card loans, time
sales and revolving credit and inventory financing for retail merchants,
auto leasing and inventory financing, mortgage servicing, and annuity and
mutual fund sales.

      Specialized financing - loans and financing leases for major capital
assets, including aircraft, industrial facilities and equipment, and energy-
related facilities; commercial and residential real estate loans and
investments; and loans to and investments in highly leveraged management
buyouts and corporate recapitalizations.

      Equipment management - leases, loans and asset management services
for portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment, including
aircraft, trailers, auto fleets, modular space units, railroad rolling
stock, data processing equipment, ocean-going containers and satellites.

      Mid-market financing - loans and financing and operating leases for
middle-market customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end
users, for a variety of equipment, including data processing equipment,
medical and diagnostic equipment, and equipment used in construction,
manufacturing, office applications and telecommunications activities.

      Very few of the products financed by GE Capital are manufactured by
other GE segments.

    *    GECS SPECIALTY INSURANCE. U.S. and international multiple-line
property and casualty reinsurance and certain directly written specialty
insurance; financial guaranty insurance, principally on municipal bonds and
structured finance issues; private mortgage insurance; creditor insurance
covering international customer loan repayments; and life reinsurance.

    *    GECS SECURITIES BROKER-DEALER. Kidder, Peabody, a full-service
international investment bank and securities broker, member of the
principal stock and commodities exchanges and a primary dealer in U.S.
government securities. Offers services such as underwriting, sales and
trading, advisory services on acquisitions and financings, research and
asset management.

                                     F-37

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 62

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 30 GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONSOLIDATED)

U.S. revenues include GE exports to external customers, as shown by major
areas of the world on page 38, and royalty and licensing income from non-
U.S. sources.

      The Company manages its exposure to currency movements by committing
to future exchanges of currencies at specified prices and dates.
Commitments outstanding at December 31, 1993 and 1992, were $1,386 million
and $1,533 million, respectively, for GE and $1,833 million and $2,084
million, respectively, for GECS, excluding Kidder, Peabody.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            REVENUES
(In millions)               For the years ended December 31
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Total revenues                    Intersegment revenues                External revenues
                          -------------------------------      ------------------------------    --------------------------------
                               1993      1992        1991        1993        1992        1991        1993        1992        1991
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                         <C>       <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>
United States               $52,039   $48,710     $47,277      $1,513      $1,281      $1,246     $50,526     $47,429     $46,031
Other areas of the world     11,210    10,776       9,662       1,174       1,132       1,064      10,036       9,644       8,598
Intercompany eliminations    (2,687)   (2,413)     (2,310)     (2,687)     (2,413)     (2,310)          -           -           -
                            -------   -------     -------      ------      ------      ------     -------     -------     -------
   Total                    $60,562   $57,073     $54,629      $    -      $    -      $    -     $60,562     $57,073     $54,629
                            =======   =======     =======      ======      ======      ======     =======     =======     =======
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


<CAPTION>


                            OPERATING PROFIT                 ASSETS
(In millions)               For the years ended December 31  At December 31
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               1993      1992        1991        1993        1992        1991
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>
United States                $7,019    $6,883      $6,294    $219,903    $168,797    $147,648
Other areas of the world        793       819         898      31,791      24,244      19,031
Intercompany eliminations       (23)        6         (22)       (188)       (165)       (171)
                             ------    ------      ------    --------    --------    --------
   Total                     $7,789    $7,708      $7,170    $251,506    $192,876    $166,508
                             ======    ======      ======    ========    ========    ========
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 31 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

As required under generally accepted accounting principles, financial
instruments are presented in the accompanying financial statements -
generally at either cost or fair value - based on both the characteristics
of and management intentions regarding the instruments. Management believes
that the financial statement presentation is the most useful for displaying
the Company's results. However, SFAS No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value
of Financial Instruments, requires disclosure of an estimate of the fair
value of certain financial instruments. These disclosures disregard
management intentions regarding the instruments, and, therefore, management
believes that this information may be of limited usefulness.

      Apart from the Company's own borrowings, certain marketable
securities and the financial instruments of Kidder, Peabody, relatively few
of the Company's financial instruments are actively traded. Thus, fair
values must often be determined by using one or more models that indicate
value based on estimates of quantifiable characteristics as of a particular
date. Because this undertaking is, by nature, difficult and highly
judgmental, for a limited number of instruments, alternative valuation
techniques indicate values sufficiently diverse that the only practicable
disclosure is a range of values. Users of the following data are cautioned
that limitations in the estimation techniques may have produced disclosed
values different from those that could have been realized at December 31,
1993 or 1992. Moreover, the disclosed values are representative of fair
values only as of the dates indicated inasmuch as interest rates,
performance of the economy, tax policies and other variables significantly
impact fair valuations. Cash and equivalents, trading securities, reverse
repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and other receivables have
been excluded as their carrying amounts and fair values are the same, or
approximately the same.

      Values were estimated as follows.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES. Based on quoted market prices or dealer quotes for
actively traded securities. Value of other such securities was estimated
using quoted market prices for similar securities.

                                     F-38

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 63

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

TIME SALES, LOANS AND RELATED PARTICIPATIONS. Based on quoted market
prices, recent transactions, market comparables and/or discounted future
cash flows, using rates at which similar loans would have been made to
similar borrowers.

INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES. Based on market comparables, recent
transactions and/or discounted future cash flows for GECS investments.
These equity interests were generally acquired in connection with financing
transactions and, for purposes of this disclosure, fair values were
estimated. GE's investments (aggregating $1,336 million and $1,301 million
at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively) comprise many small
investments, many of which are located outside the United States, and
generally involve joint ventures for specific, limited objectives;
determination of fair values is impracticable.

OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. Based on recent comparable transactions,
market comparables, discounted future cash flows, quoted market prices,
and/or estimates of the cost to terminate or otherwise settle obligations
to counterparties.

BORROWINGS. Based on quoted market prices or market comparables. Fair
values of interest rate and currency swaps on borrowings are based on
quoted market prices and include the effects of counterparty
creditworthiness.

ANNUITY BENEFITS. Based on expected future cash flows, discounted at
currently offered discount rates for immediate annuity contracts or cash
surrender value for single premium deferred annuities.

FINANCIAL GUARANTIES OF INSURANCE AFFILIATES. Based on future cash flows,
considering expected renewal premiums, claims, refunds and servicing costs,
discounted at a market rate.

      The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's
financial instruments were as follows.

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS (LIABILITIES)                                              1993                                1992
                                                    ------------------------------     --------------------------------
                                                    Carrying             Estimated     Carrying               Estimated
At December 31 (In millions)                          amount            fair value       amount              fair value
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>             <C>                <C>               <C>
GE
   Investment securities                             $    19           $    19          $    32              $    32
   Other financial instruments                         2,105             2,261              832                  869
   Borrowings (a)                                     (4,804)           (4,933)          (6,868)              (6,991)
GECS
   Investment securities                              26,792            26,792           11,224               11,634
   Time sales, loans and related participations       39,678         41,410-40,685       36,131           37,420-36,240
   Investments in associated companies                 2,079           2,830-2,635        1,720             2,295-2,180
   Other financial instruments                         6,045           6,085-5,960        2,430             2,545-2,405
   Annuity benefits                                   (8,894)           (8,660)               -                    -
   Borrowings (a) (b)                                (85,888)          (87,020)         (75,140)             (76,400)
   Financial guaranties of insurance affiliates       (1,312)        (135)-(220)         (1,036)              200-55
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a)   Swap contracts are integral to the Company's goal of achieving the lowest borrowing costs for particular funding
    strategies. The above fair values of borrowings include fair values of associated interest rate and currency swaps.
    At December 31, 1993, the approximate settlement values of GE's and GECS' swaps were $21 million and $340 million,
    respectively. Without such swaps, estimated fair values of GE's and GECS' borrowings would have been $4,912 million
    and $86,680 million, respectively. Approximately 90% of the notional amount of swaps outstanding at December 31,
    1993, was with counterparties having credit ratings of Aa/AA or better.

(b)   Proceeds from borrowings are invested in a variety of GECS activities, including both financial instruments, shown
    in the preceding table, as well as leases, for which fair value disclosures are neither required nor reasonably
    estimable. When evaluating the extent to which estimated fair value of borrowings exceeds the related carrying
    amount, users should consider that the fair value of the fixed payment stream for long-term leases would increase
    as well.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                     F-39

<PAGE>

Annual Report Page 64

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 32 QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               First quarter       Second quarter       Third quarter     Fourth quarter
(Dollar amounts in millions;               -----------------    -----------------   -----------------     -----------------
per-share amounts in dollars)                 1993      1992       1993      1992      1993      1992      1993        1992
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>         <C>
CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
Earnings from continuing operations         $1,085    $  964     $  656    $1,130    $1,206    $  996   $ 1,477     $ 1,215
Earnings from discontinued operations           75        94          -        86         -       114         -         126
Gain on transfer of discontinued operations      -         -        678         -         -         -         -           -
Accounting change                             (862) (a)    -          -         -         -         -         -           -
                                            ------    ------     ------    ------    ------    ------    ------      ------
Net earnings                                $  298    $1,058     $1,334    $1,216    $1,206    $1,110   $ 1,477      $1,341
                                            ======    ======     ======    ======    ======    ======    ======      ======
Per share
   Earnings from continuing operations      $ 1.27    $ 1.12     $ 0.77    $ 1.32    $ 1.41    $ 1.17   $  1.73     $  1.42
   Earnings from discontinued operations      0.09      0.11       0.79      0.10         -      0.13         -        0.15
   Accounting change                         (1.01) (a)    -          -         -         -         -         -           -
                                            ------    ------     ------    ------    ------    ------    ------      ------
   Net earnings                             $ 0.35    $ 1.23     $ 1.56    $ 1.42    $ 1.41    $ 1.30   $  1.73     $  1.57
                                            ======    ======     ======    ======    ======    ======    ======      ======
SELECTED DATA - CONTINUING OPERATIONS
GE
   Sales of goods and services              $7,968    $7,996     $9,468    $9,513    $8,779    $9,242   $11,607     $11,192
   Gross profit from sales                   2,074     2,083      1,662     2,496     2,198     2,123     2,929       2,824
GECS
   Revenues from operations                  4,763     4,301      5,129     4,493     5,919     4,761     6,326       4,885
   Operating profit                            644       517        583       484       833       542       588         492
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(a) Reflects the cumulative effect to January 1, 1993, of the change in accounting for postemployment benefits (SFAS No. 112).
     As originally reported, net earnings for the first quarter were $1,160 million, or $1.36 per share.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less
cost of goods and services sold. For GECS, operating profit is income
before taxes.

      Second-quarter 1993 earnings from continuing operations were reduced
by restructuring provisions of $678 million ($0.79 per share) after tax.
Second-quarter gross profit from sales was reduced by restructuring
provisions of $875 million before tax.

      Earnings-per-share amounts for each quarter are required to be
computed independently and, in 1992, did not equal the total year earnings-
per-share amounts.

                                     F-40

<PAGE>

          GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
                               SCHEDULE II
               AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND
    UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
                                    
                                    
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In millions)
                                                  Deductions
                     Balance at                   ----------
                   beginning of                      Amounts        Balance at
Name of Debtor           period     Additions      Collected     end of period
- --------------     ------------     ---------     ----------     -------------
<S>                      <C>           <C>            <C>               <C>
1993:
   Employees:
      William J. Conaty  $    -        $  0.5(a)      $    -            $  0.5
                         ======        ======         ======            ======
1992:
   Employees:
      Names              $    -        $    -         $    -            $    -
                         ======        ======         ======            ======
1991:
   Employees:
      Names              $    -        $    -         $    -            $    -
                         ======        ======         ======            ======
<FN>
(a)In connection with the relocation of William J. Conaty, who was promoted to
      the position of Senior Vice President - Human Resources in 1993, the
      Company provided a $0.5 million loan to assist him in purchasing a home. 
      The loan is secured by a second mortgage on the home and is repayable, with
      interest at the Company's commercial paper borrowing rate, in five years.
</TABLE>





                                  F-41
<PAGE>

          GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
                              SCHEDULE VIII
                    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                    
                                    
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               GE allowance for losses
                                                  deducted from assets
                                               -----------------------
                                                 Accounts
                                                and notes
                                               receivable  Investments
                                               ----------   ----------
                                                 (Amounts in millions)

<S>                                                  <C>          <C>
Balance, January 1, 1991                            $191         $106
      Provisions charged (credited) to operations     58           10
      (Deductions) additions                         (58)         (50)
                                                    ----         ----
Balance, December 31, 1991                           191  (1)      66
      Provisions charged (credited) to operations     78           10
      (Deductions) additions                         (73)         (19)
                                                    ----         ----
Balance, December 31, 1992                           196  (1)      57
      Provisions charged (credited) to operations     51           57
      (Deductions) additions                         (49)          (5)
                                                    ----         ----

Balance, December 31, 1993                          $198  (1)    $109
                                                    ====         ====

- --------------------------
<FN>
      (1) The year-end balance is segregated on the Statement of
          Financial Position as follows:
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          
                                                 1993     1992     1991
                                                 ----     ----     ----
          <S>                                    <C>      <C>      <C>
          Current receivables                    $170     $178     $181
          
          Other assets (long-term receivables,
            customer financing, etc.)              28       18       10
                                                 ----     ----     ----
          
                                                 $198     $196     $191
                                                 ====     ====     ====
<FN>

      Reference is made to note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing in the 1993 Annual Report to Share Owners which
contains information with respect to GECS allowance for losses on
financing receivables for 1993, 1992 and 1991.

</TABLE>
                                  F-42
<PAGE>

          GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
                               SCHEDULE IX
                          SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                                    
                                    
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     At December 31
                                -------  ----------      Maximum        Average for year
                                           Weighted       amount   ---------------------
                                            Average  outstanding                Weighted
                                           Interest       at any        Amount  Interest
Category                         Balance       Rate    month-end   Outstanding  Rate (e)
- --------                         -------   --------    ---------   -----------  --------
<S>                              <C>          <C>       <C>            <C>         <C>
1993                                                               (Dollar amounts in millions)
- ----
    GE
    --
    Commercial paper             $  708       3.36%      $ 2,943   $ 2,591 (a)     3.11%
    Bank borrowings -
       affiliates
          (principally
            non U.S.)               588       6.41%          588       451 (b)    10.46%
    Notes with trust
       departments                  102       3.03%          348       280 (b)     3.23%
    Current portion of
       long-term borrowings         819
    Other                           174
                                -------
    Total GE                      2,391                              3,322 (c)     4.12%
                                -------
    GECS
    ----
    Commercial paper             46,298       3.39%       46,298    41,689 (a)     3.28%
    Banks                         4,957       3.59%        4,957     3,773 (a)     3.59%
    Current portion
       of long-term
          borrowings              6,421
    Notes with trust
       departments                1,882       3.10%        2,317     1,895 (a)     2.97%
    Passbooks and
       investment
          certificates              445
                                -------
    Total GECS                   60,003                             47,357 (d)     3.29%
                                -------
    Eliminations                   (259)
                                -------
       Consolidated             $62,135
       ------------             =======
<FN>
(a)   Average daily balance.
(b)   Average balance is calculated by averaging month-end
      balances for the year.
(c)   Excludes current portion of long-term debt and other.
(d)   Excludes current portion of long-term debt and
      passbooks and investment certificates.
(e)   Short-term interest expense incurred divided by the
      average balance outstanding.
</TABLE>
                                  F-43
<PAGE>

          GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
                               SCHEDULE IX
                          SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                                    
                                    
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     At December 31
                                -------  ----------      Maximum        Average for year
                                           Weighted       amount   ---------------------
                                            Average  outstanding                Weighted
                                           Interest       at any        Amount  Interest
Category                         Balance       Rate    month-end   Outstanding  Rate (e)
- --------                         -------   --------    ---------   -----------  --------
<S>                              <C>          <C>       <C>           <C>         <C>
1992                                                                 (Dollar amounts in millions)
- ----
    GE
    --
    Commercial paper            $ 1,175       3.53%      $ 4,596   $ 3,921 (a)     3.77%
    Bank borrowings -
       affiliates
          (principally
          non U.S.                  456       8.73%          777       680 (b)    12.55%
    Notes with trust
       departments                  269       3.14%          376       331 (b)     3.74%
    Current portion of
       long-term borrowings       1,359
    Other                           189
                                -------
    Total GE                      3,448                              4,932 (c)     4.98%
                                -------
    GECS
    ----
    Commercial paper             42,168       3.57%       42,168    38,816 (a)     3.94%
    Banks                         4,516       4.20%        5,907     3,560 (a)     4.35%
    Current portion
       of long-term
          borrowings              4,300
    Notes with trust
       departments                1,659       3.54%        1,841     1,441 (a)     3.54%
    Passbooks and
       investment
          certificates              540
                                -------
    Total GECS                   53,183                             43,817 (d)     3.96%
                                -------
    Eliminations                   (242)
                                -------
       Consolidated             $56,389
       ------------             =======
<FN>
(a)   Average daily balance.
(b)   Average balance is calculated by averaging month-end
      balances for the year.
(c)   Excludes current portion of long-term debt and other.
(d)   Excludes current portion of long-term debt and
      passbooks and investment certificates.
(e)   Short-term interest expense incurred divided by the
      average balance outstanding.
</TABLE>
                                  F-44
<PAGE>

          GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
                               SCHEDULE IX
                          SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                                    
                                    
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     At December 31
                                -------  ----------      Maximum        Average for year
                                           Weighted       amount   ---------------------
                                            Average  outstanding                Weighted
                                           Interest       at any        Amount  Interest
Category                         Balance       Rate    month-end   Outstanding  Rate (e)
- --------                         -------   --------    ---------   -----------  --------
<S>                              <C>          <C>       <C>           <C>          <C>
1991                                                               (Dollar amounts in millions)
- ----
    GE
    --
    Commercial paper             $ 1,369      5.43%       $5,095    $4,047 (a)     6.02%
    Bank borrowings -
       affiliates
       (principally
          non U.S.)                1,464     11.93%        1,464     1,015 (b)    12.69%
    Notes with trust
       departments                   297      4.77%          396       348 (b)     5.96%
    Current portion of
       long-term borrowings          259
    Other                             93
                                  ------
    Total GE                       3,482                             5,410 (c)     7.27%
                                  ------
    GECS
    ----
    Commercial paper              38,822      5.12%       38,822    35,768 (a)     6.15%
    Banks                          3,003      5.20%        4,264     3,655 (a)     6.20%
    Current portion
       of long-term
          borrowings               4,370
    Notes with trust
       departments                   897      4.90%          897     1,090 (a)     5.83%
    Passbooks and
       investment
          certificates               978
                                 -------
    Total GECS                    48,070                            40,513 (d)     6.36%
                                 -------
    Eliminations                   (202)
                                 -------
    Consolidated                 $51,350
    ------------                 =======
<FN>
(a)   Average daily balance.
(b)   Average balance is calculated by averaging month-end
      balances for the year.
(c)   Excludes current portion of long-term debt and other.
(d)   Excludes current portion of long-term debt and
      passbooks and investment certificates.
(e)   Short-term interest expense incurred divided by the
      average balance outstanding.
</TABLE>
                                  F-45
<PAGE>

          GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
                               SCHEDULE X
               SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           For the year ended December 31
                                           ------------------------------
(In millions)                                1993        1992        1991
                                             ----        ----        ----
<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
GE
      Employee compensation, including
         Social Security taxes and other
         benefits                          $8,981      $9,258      $9,201
      Maintenance and repairs                 705         768         738
      Advertising                             332         347         344
      Taxes, except payroll and income
         taxes                                286         249         286
GECS
      Employee compensation, including
         Social Security taxes and other
         benefits                           2,067       1,631       1,333

      Advertising                             111         101          97
      Taxes, except payroll and income
         taxes                                151          97         118
Consolidated
      Employee compensation, including
         Social Security taxes and other
         benefits                          11,048      10,889      10,534
      Maintenance and repairs                 705         768         738
      Advertising                             443         448         441
      Taxes, except payroll and income
         taxes                                437         346         404

<FN>
      Total employee compensation data include Social Security taxes of
$645 million in 1993, $649 million in 1992 and $651 million in 1991.
Amounts for depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, which were
less than 1% of total sales and revenues in each of the three years shown,
are included in "all other operating activities" in the Statements of Cash
Flows.
</TABLE>

                                  F-46
<PAGE>
                   Differences between the Circulated
                        Material and the Material
                          in Electronic Format

    The financial information included on pages F-1 through F-40
represents the financial information which appears in the 1993 General
Electric Annual Report to Share Owners.  That information was prepared
on typesetting software for purposes of printing the Annual Report.  The
typesetting format was then converted electronically into an
Officewriter format which can be accepted by the EDGAR system.  Certain
minor differences of graphics, layout and appearance, as set forth
below, exist between the information as it is presented here and as it
is presented in the Annual Report to Share Owners.

    1.    The Annual Report is printed on dove gray colored recycled
          paper in a two column per page layout.

    2.    For ease of reference, Annual Report page numbers have been
          retained and are indicated in the upper left hand corner of
          the pages in electronic format as "Annual Report page ---."
          The designation does not appear in the circulated Annual
          Report where page numbers are indicated by arabic numerals at
          the bottom of each page.

    3.    On page F-1 (Annual Report page 25) the parenthetical "(Annual
          Report Pages)" was added to the electronic format for the
          sake of clarity, and these words do not appear in the
          circulated Annual Report.

    4.    Pages 26-27, 28-29, and 30-31 of the Annual Report are
          "spreads," with the page on the left representing line-by-
          line account descriptions and numbered columns for General
          Electric Company and consolidated affiliates, and with the
          page on the right continuing with numbered columns for GE and
          GECS.  For ease of reading in this electronic filing, line-by-
          line descriptions have been repeated on the equivalent right
          side pages, i.e., F-3, F-5 and F-7.

    5.    On pages F-1, F-8, F-9, F-13, F-14, F-15, F-16, F-17 and F-18
          (Annual Report pages 25, 32, 33, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42)
          of the electronic format the word "Chart:" appears in a
          number of instances toward the left hand margin next to a
          description of the chart.  This formulation indicates that in
          the circulated Annual Report there appears a colored bar
          graph at these locations.  The numbers which are presented at
          these places in the electronic format represent the plot
          points which were used to construct the bar graphs.

    6.    Many headings in the circulated Annual Report are in bold face
          or in enlarged type or type of a special style.  These have
          been converted to block capitals in the electronic format.
          The numbers of the Notes to Financial Statements appear as
          large contrasting green numerals in the circulated Annual
          Report.

    7.    The solid black square character which is used in the
          circulated Annual Report has been replaced by an asterisk in
          the electronic format.

    8.    On Annual Report page 44 (F-20) there are facsimile signatures
          of Messrs. Welch and Dammerman of GE in the circulated
          version.

    9.    The Accountants Report (KPMG Peat Marwick) on page F-20 of
          this 10-K Report refers specifically to this Report on Form
          10-K, including certain financial statement schedules
          included herein.  KPMG Peat Marwick's Report appearing in the
          circulated Annual Report to Share Owners on page 44, signed
          by facsimile, does not refer to the schedules identified
          solely with the 10-K.

                                  F-47



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                               Exhibit 4





                                    March 11, 1994



Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.   20549

Subject: General Electric Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 - File No. 1-35
         -----------------------------------------------------------

Dear Sirs:

      Neither General Electric Company (the "Company") nor any of its
consolidated subsidiaries has outstanding any instrument with respect to
its long-term debt under which the total amount of securities authorized
exceeds 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis.  In accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of
Item 601 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR Sec. 229.601), the Company hereby
agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon
request, a copy of each instrument which defines the rights of holders
of such long-term debt.

                              Very truly yours,

                              GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY



                                    By: James R. Bunt
                                        ------------------------------
                                        Vice President and Treasurer


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.E
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10(E)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                           Exhibit 10(e)
                                                                        
                      GE Supplementary Pension Plan
                   Amendment Dated September 10, 1993
                                    
Add New Section V(c)

Subparagraph (ii) of Section I shall not apply to the benefit accrued
hereunder by an individual who (i) is an Employee on or after October 1,
1993, (ii) has otherwise met the requirements for participation set
forth in Section I on or before December 31, 1993, and (iii) has
attained age 56 on or before December 31, 1993.  If such individual
actually terminates employment prior to age 60, said accrued benefit
shall be determined consistent with the principles and subject to the
limitations set forth herein as if such individual retired on his actual
termination date. However, payment of such accrued benefit to the
individual shall not commence until after such individual attains age 60
and has commenced receiving employer-provided benefits under the GE
Pension Plan.  If such individual dies prior to such commencement date
under this Plan, a survivor benefit with respect to such accrued benefit
shall be payable hereunder determined in the same manner as other
survivor benefits for participants who die before their commencement
date.  Consistent with Section XII and Section XIV(a), said accrued
benefit earned prior to any termination, suspension or amendment of the
Plan may not be adversely affected by such action, nor may such accrued
benefit be assigned or otherwise alienated.




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.H
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10(H)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                           Exhibit 10(h)

                       Financial Planning Program
                   (As amended through September 1993)

Objective
- ---------
      To encourage Officers to do sound personal financial planning by
      reimbursing 50% of the costs of such services (100% effective
      1/1/82).
      
Approved Firms:
- --------------
      Any reputable and professionally competent firm or individual whom
      you select.
      
Services Covered:
- ----------------
      Preparation of a personal financial plan, including:
      
      -     estate planning (review of wills, trusts, insurance, etc.)
      -     preparation of wills and trust documents
      -     tax planning and tax return preparation
      -     investment analysis and counsel
      
      Excluded:
      
      -     investment management
      
      If there is any question about whether a particular service you
      plan to request is covered, call Corporate Executive Compensation.
      
Schedule of Fee Maximum for Reimbursement:
- -----------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Income Tax       Other
                                  Preparation    Services     Total  *
                                  -----------    --------     -----
      <S>                              <C>        <C>       <C>
      Vice Presidents
      ---------------
         Initial Review/Plan           $2,500     $12,000   $14,500
         Periodic Reassessments         2,500       8,000    10,500 **
      
      Senior Vice Presidents and above
      --------------------------------
         Annual reimbursement               -           -    30,000
      
      *Plus a "gross-up" payment for federal income tax considerations.
      **The higher reimbursement limit (i.e., $14,500) is allowed for a
            calendar year in which complete plan reviews are undertaken
            because of one of the following circumstances:  death of
            spouse; divorce; move to/from a foreign assignment; or
            upcoming retirement.
      
Notes:
- -----
      -     Participation in this program is totally voluntary.
      -     The Company's payment is compensation for income tax
            purposes and, as such, is subject to withholding and will be
            reported on your W-2 Form.



</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.O
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10(O)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                              Exhibit 10(o)
                           GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
                      1994 EXECUTIVE DEFERRED SALARY PLAN
                                       
                                       
I.    ELIGIBILITY
      -----------

       Each  employee  of  General  Electric  Company  or  a  participating
affiliate ("Company") who, as of December 31, 1993, is in an Executive Band
or higher position, or an equivalent position in such affiliate, and who is
subject to U.S. tax laws, shall be eligible to participate in this Plan.

II.   DEFERRAL OF SALARY
      ------------------

      1.    Each   employee   eligible   to  participate   in   this   Plan
            ("Participant")  shall be given an opportunity  to  irrevocably
            elect  (subject to any conditions set out in the election form)
            prior to any deferral hereunder:

            (a)  the portion (minimum of 10%, maximum of 100% for executive
            officers  - 50% for all others) of the Participant's 1994  base
            salary to be deferred, and

            (b) the form of payout alternative as set forth in Section V.

      2.    Commencing  with  base  salary earned  for  January  1994,  the
            Participant's  total base salary elected to be  deferred  under
            this Plan will be deferred in ratable installments through  the
            month   of  December  1994,  and  will  be  credited   to   the
            Participant's deferred salary cash account ("Deferred Account")
            as of the end of the month of deferral ("Deferral Date").

III.  SPECIAL ONE-TIME MATCHING CREDIT
      --------------------------------

            As  of  December 31, 1994, a special one-time credit  shall  be
            made  to  the  Deferred  Account of  each  Participant  who  is
            actively  employed by the Company on such date.  The amount  of
            such  credit  shall equal 3.5% of the total  1994  base  salary
            deferred   under  this  Plan  by  the  Participant   (excluding
            interest).   Such  credit  shall  not  be  provided   for   any
            Participant who has terminated employment with the Company  for
            any  reason  prior  to December 31, 1994, or  is  not  actively
            employed on such date.

IV.   MANNER OF ACCOUNTING
      --------------------

      1.    Each   Deferred  Account  shall  be  unfunded,  unsecured   and
            nonassignable, and shall not be a trust for the benefit of  any
            Participant.

      2.    Except  as may be otherwise provided in Section V or VIII,  the
            Participant's Deferred Account will be credited  with  (a)  the
            amount  of  base salary deferred on each Deferral Date  as  set
            forth in Section II (b) the special one-time matching credit as
            set  forth in Section III, and (c) interest at the annual  rate
            of 10% compounded annually on each December 31.

V.    PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNT
      ---------------------------

      1.    Payment  of a Participant's Deferred Account will be made  only
            after termination of employment of the Participant.

      2.    If  no manner of payment election is made, the Deferred Account
            will  be  paid in 10 annual installments commencing on March  1
            (or  as  soon  thereafter as practical) following the  year  of
            termination of employment.

      3.    At the time of election to defer base salary, a Participant may
            irrevocably   elect:    (a)  the  number   of   annual   payout
            installments  (minimum of 10, maximum of 20)  of  the  Deferred
            Account  commencing  on  March 1  (or  as  soon  thereafter  as
            practical)  following  the year of termination  of  employment,
            unless  (b)  a  lump  sum payment of the  Deferred  Account  is
            elected  in  which case the lump sum payment will  be  made  on
            March 1 (or as soon thereafter as practical) following the year
            of termination of employment.

      4.    Participants  who  terminate  their  employment  on  or   after
            December  31,  1994  because of retirement, death,  disability,
            layoff, plant closing or transfer to a successor employer which
            is not controlled by the Company, or Participants who terminate
            their  employment on or after December 31, 1998 for any reason,
            will receive payouts based on Deferred Account accumulations at
            the  10%  interest  rate.  Payments will be  made  pursuant  to
            Section  V.2  or V.3 above beginning on March  1  (or  as  soon
            thereafter  as practical) following the year of termination  of
            employment.

      5.    Unless  waived  by the Chairman of the Board  of  Directors  of
            General  Electric Company (the "Chairman"), if the  Participant
            terminates  employment  prior to  December  31,  1994  for  any
            reason, or prior to December 31, 1998 for any reason other than
            retirement,  death,  disability,  layoff,  plant   closing   or
            transfer to a successor employer which is not controlled by the
            Company, the Participant's Deferred Account will be paid  in  a
            lump   sum  as  soon  as  practical  following  the   date   of
            termination, along with simple interest credited at  an  annual
            rate of 3% rather than the rate specified in Section IV.

VI.   DEATH BENEFITS
      --------------

       In  the event of a Participant's death prior to receiving any or all
payments  to  which  the  Participant is entitled, the  remaining  Deferred
Account  shall be paid at the time and in the manner provided in Section  V
to  the  beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the  Participant  on  a
beneficiary  designation  form properly file by the  Participant  with  the
Company  in accordance with established administrative procedures.   If  no
such  designated  beneficiary  survives  the  Participant,  such  remaining
benefits shall be paid as set forth above to the Participant's estate.

VII.  ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION
      ---------------------------------

       This  Plan shall be administered by a "Committee" consisting of  not
less  than  two  persons appointed from time to time by the Chairman.   The
Committee  shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Company  to
administer  and interpret the Plan in its sole discretion.   All  Committee
decisions with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan
shall be final and binding upon all persons.

VIII. AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN
      ---------------------

       This Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated at any time by the
Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
("MDCC").  In addition, the MDCC may alter or amend the payout schedule  of
any or all of the accrued benefits of a Participant at any time.

IX.   EFFECTIVE DATE
      --------------

      The effective date of this Plan shall be January 1, 1994.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.P
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10(P)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                       Exhibit 10(p)


                     DIRECTORS' CHARITABLE GIFT PLAN
                      (As amended through May 1993)

PURPOSE

*    The purpose of the General Electric Company Directors' Charitable Gift
     Plan is to provide the Company and its Board of Directors with an
     opportunity to provide substantial future contributions to charitable
     organizations selected by the Directors.

ELIGIBILITY

*     All current and future Directors of General Electric are (or upon
      the effective date of their election to the Board will become)
      eligible to participate in the General Electric Company Directors'
      Charitable Gift Plan; provided that, in the case of employee
      directors, their eligibility to participate in the Plan does not
      vest until termination of directorship due to the earlier of (a)
      death or (b) retirement upon or after attainment of age 60.

CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTION

*    The Company will contribute a total of $1,000,000 to be allocated in
     accordance with each Director's recommendation among up to five
     charitable organizations.

*    The donation(s) will be made in the Director's name.

*    The donation(s) will be made at the earlier of the Director's retirement
     from the Board or death.



















                                   (1 of 4)
<PAGE>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Electric Company                       Directors' Charitable Gift Plan


RECOMMENDATION OF CHARITABLE BENEFICIARY

*    Each Director will complete a Charitable Beneficiary Recommendation Form
     to recommend the organization(s) to receive donations from the Company
     after his or her retirement, or death if earlier.  The form will be
     acknowledged by the Company, and a copy will be returned to the Director.

     -   You will find your Charitable Beneficiary Recommendation Form under
         the Recommendation Form tab in this binder.

*    Each Director may recommend up to five charities to receive donations
     aggregating $1,000,000.

*    Each charity recommended by a Director must be a tax-exempt
     organization under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
     However, a Director who is a citizen and/or resident of a country
     other than the United States may recommend a charitable
     organization located in that country, but any such organization
     must be approved by the Company in order to be eligible to receive
     a donation under the Plan.

*    The designation of a charitable beneficiary may be revoked or revised by
     a Director at any time before his or her retirement, unless a Director
     elects to make a designation irrevocable.

*    A Director can make the designation of a charitable beneficiary
     irrevocable as to any charity by completing Section III of the Charitable
     Beneficiary Recommendation Form.  The irrevocable designation can apply
     to all or a portion of the recommended donation amount for the charity.
     An irrevocable designation cannot be changed by the Director unless the
     designated charity ceases to qualify as a tax-exempt organization.

*    If any charity designated by a Director to receive a donation ceases to
     qualify as a tax-exempt organization, and a revised designation is not
     submitted by the Director before his or her death, the amount designated
     for that particular organization shall be divided among the Director's
     remaining designated qualified charities on a prorata basis.  If all the
     charities selected by a Director cease to qualify, the Company will
     select a beneficiary to receive the donation on behalf of the Director.











                                   (2 of 4)
<PAGE>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Electric Company                       Directors' Charitable Gift Plan


*    Each charity recommended by a Director will receive a letter from the
     Company notifying it that it has been selected by the Director to receive
     a donation under the Plan.  However, a Director can instruct the Company
     not to notify a charity by completing Section IV of the Charitable
     Beneficiary Recommendation Form.

     -   A sample notification letter is included as Attachment A (p.5).

PROGRAM FUNDING

*    The Company intends to fund its charitable gifts under the Plan by
     purchasing joint life insurance contracts on the lives of the
     participating Directors.  Each joint life contract will insure the lives
     of two directors; the contract death benefit will be payable to General
     Electric at the second death.  The death benefit will be received
     tax-free by General Electric.  Each contract will have a $2,000,000
     initial death benefit ($1,000,000 per insured Director).

*    General Electric has an arrangement with an insurance company which will
     allow it to acquire insurance on all of the Directors (including any who
     might otherwise be uninsurable.)  However, in order for the Company to
     acquire the insurance, each Director must provide certain medical and
     other information by completing a Questionnaire and Medical History Form.

     -   You will find the Questionnaire and Medical History Form under the
         Medical Questionnaire tab of this binder.

*    General Electric will be the owner and beneficiary of the insurance
     contracts and will pay all policy premiums.  Neither the insured Director
     nor their designated charitable beneficiaries under the Plan will have
     any rights or obligations with respect to these insurance contracts.














                                   (3 of 4)
<PAGE>

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Electric Company                       Directors' Charitable Gift Plan


MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

*    A Director's rights and interests under the Plan may not be assigned or
     transferred.

*    The expenses of the Plan will be borne by the Company.  No contribution
     from a Director will be required nor will a Director forego any other
     compensation or benefits to participate.

*    The effective date of the Plan will be June 1, 1990.

*    The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board as the
     Board may deem advisable.

































                                   (4 of 4)


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.R
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10(R)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                              Exhibit 10(r)

                  General Electric Leadership Life Insurance
                          (Effective January 1, 1994)


GE Leadership Life Insurance provides selected employees in leadership
positions with individually owned life insurance that can be continued into
retirement on a tax-effective basis.

THE INFORMATION YOU NEED...                      BEGINS ON PAGE...

WHAT THE PLAN PROVIDES                                   2
      Your Coverage Amount                               2
      GE's Special Payments                              2
      Cash Value                                         4
COVERAGE AT AGE 65                                       5
      Reductions in Coverage                             5
      Other Coverage Options                             5
ABOUT JOINING THE PLAN                                   6
      Eligibility                                        6
      Enrollment                                         7
      Completing the Enrollment Form                     7
      Assigning Policy Ownership                         8
IN SPECIAL CASES                                         8
      At Retirement                                      8
      If You Are Disabled or Laid Off                    9
      If You Take a Leave of Absence                     9
      If You Are Terminally Ill                          9
      If You Die                                        10
      If You Leave the Company                          10
      When Your GE Participation Ends                   11
      
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION                              11

                                      (1)
<PAGE>

WHAT THE PLAN PROVIDES

GE Leadership Life Insurance is provided through an individual universal
life insurance policy subject to the terms and conditions set for the plan
by GE.

The policy is issued directly to eligible GE employees by the insurance
company.

To understand your coverage, be sure to learn about these key features:

*     Your coverage amount -- The benefit your beneficiary receives if you
      die.
*     The special payments -- The method that GE uses to fund coverage for
      you.
*     The cash value -- The mechanism designed to provide your post-
      retirement coverage.

YOUR COVERAGE AMOUNT

You are covered for two times your annual pay until age 65, when reductions
in coverage begin as described on page 5.  Pay, for purposes of this plan,
is defined as your annual salary rate, plus 100% of your incentive
compensation earned in the preceding calendar year.  Benefits are paid
to your beneficiary if you die.  Payment options are described on page 10.
(If you become terminally ill, you may receive a partial advance payment
before your death; see "In Special Cases" for details.)

Your pre-age 65 coverage amount will change if your salary or incentive
compensation changes.  These changes become effective on April 1 each year
based on your pay as of the last day of the preceding February.

GE'S SPECIAL PAYMENTS

GE funds your coverage under the plan in the following way:

1.    Each year, GE advances the premium to the insurance company.

2.    The insurance company adds the premium to your policy's accumulation
      fund from which the costs of the insurance coverage are deducted; the
      balance earns tax-deferred interest at a rate set by the insurance
      company and accumulates over time to build your policy's cash value.

3.    To establish individual ownership, GE adds special payments to your
      paycheck (or to your monthly pension payments, if you're retired) in
      equal amounts that add up to the total premium; these special
      payments are immediately deducted from your paycheck and used to
      reimburse GE for the advanced premium amount.  You pay taxes on the
      special payments added to your paycheck.

Premiums and GE's special payments increase over time to pay for the higher
costs of coverage as you age and as your earnings increase; increases are
effective on April 1 each year.  The final premium payment will be made in
the plan year beginning on the April 1 after your 64th

                                      (2)
<PAGE>

birthday.  If you became eligible for coverage at age 55 or older, GE
continues premium payments for 10 calendar years, as long as you remain
eligible.

GE's special payments to you continue until March 31 following the final
premium payment, as long as you remain eligible.  These special payments
are designed to build cash value to fund a reduced level of coverage after
you reach age 65.

TRUST OWNERSHIP

If you assign ownership of your insurance policy to a trust, as described
on page 8, GE adds one special payment to your paycheck in an amount equal
to the total annual premium.  You will need to reimburse GE for the
advanced premium payment within 30 days by either of the following methods:

*     Lump sum payment from your personal funds

*     Lump sum payment from a checking account established for the trust.

You should consult your legal or financial advisor before choosing a
reimbursement method.

TAX CONSEQUENCES

When the special payments are added to your paycheck, they become part of
your taxable income.  Although GE fully funds the coverage, you pay income
tax on these special payments when they are added to your paycheck.  If you
are a non-smoker, this additional income tax is the only cost to you during
the period in which GE makes special payments.  (If GE paid for the
coverage directly, you would have taxable imputed income for the value of
coverage over $50,000.)

COVERAGE FOR CIGARETTE SMOKERS

Coverage for cigarette smokers costs substantially more than coverage for
non-smokers.  GE will pay the extra cost to provide coverage at the two
times pay level during the first two years of a smoker's coverage.


                                      (3)
<PAGE>

After 24 months, the additional payments necessary to fund the full
coverage will end.  At that time, smokers will choose either:

*     To reduce coverage to a level supported by the Company's special
      payments for non-smokers, or

*     To make the additional payments necessary to maintain coverage at the
      two times pay level.

Former cigarette smokers can qualify for two times pay coverage at the
lower non-smoker rates once they have stopped smoking for at least 12
consecutive months.  To apply for the lower non-smoker rates, you'll need
to submit an application to the GE Leadership Life Insurance Service
Center.  Your coverage at the lower rates goes into effect on the first day
of the month after the insurance company accepts your application.

If you elect reduced coverage, you may apply for coverage at the two times
pay level at any time.  However, in addition to an application, you'll need
to provide proof of your good health satisfactory to the insurance company
and, if you continue to smoke, agree to make the additional payments,
before any increase goes into effect.  Your increased coverage begins on
the first day of the month after the insurance company accepts your
application.

CASH VALUE

The cash value that accumulates in your policy is designed to provide
funding to continue a reduced level of insurance coverage after you reach
age 65.  It builds most quickly in the last 10 years of your participation
in the plan as the costs of coverage increase based on your age and
earnings.

To accomplish its intended goal, the cash value needs to build without
disruption.  If you borrow or withdraw from your cash value, your
participation in the plan ends and GE discontinues its special payments to
you.  In addition, you will not be eligible for the GE Life Insurance
provided under the GE Life, Medical and Disability Plan.
If you die, the cash value helps provide the insurance benefit owed to your
beneficiary; it is not paid in addition to the death benefit.  You are not
permitted to make direct contributions to the accumulation fund while GE is
making special payments on your behalf -- except as required to maintain
unreduced coverage at age 65 (as described on page 6) or
for cigarette smokers to maintain coverage at the two times pay level
(as described above).

Coverage after age 65 is based on interest and mortality assumptions in
effect in the year in which the last premium payment is made.  Changes
in interest rates and mortality experience after the last premium payment,
as well as policy loans and withdrawals, may affect your policy's cash
value and the death benefit payable to your beneficiary.

                                      (4)
<PAGE>

COVERAGE AT AGE 65

REDUCTIONS IN COVERAGE

Your insurance coverage begins to reduce after age 65 if you are still at
work or if you are an eligible retiree (see "In Special Cases").  All
reductions go into effect on the January 1* after your birthday.

ON THE JANUARY 1*       YOUR PRE-AGE 65 COVERAGE IS REDUCED...**
AFTER YOU REACH...

Age 65                  To 1.5 times your pay (or by 25% of your coverage
                        if you had coverage of less than 2 times pay)

Age 66                  To 1 times your pay (or by an additional 25%
                        if you had coverage of less than 2 times pay)

Age 67                  To 2/3 of your pay (or by an additional 16.67% if
                        you had coverage of less than 2 times pay) which
                        continues for as long as you continue your policy

Reductions are applied to the coverage in effect on the day before your
65th birthday, based on your pay as of the end of the preceding February.
Reductions begin on the January 1* after you reach age 65 regardless of
when you join the plan.  Keep in mind, however, that GE's special payments
continue until you reach age 65 or complete 10 years of participation in
the plan if you became eligible after age 55.

*     If your birthday is January 1, applicable reductions go into effect
      on your 65th, 66th and 67th birthdays
**    All amounts are rounded to the nearest $100

OTHER COVERAGE OPTIONS

Your cash value is intended to fund reduced coverage after age 65.
However, if you prefer, you may elect one of three other options when
you reach age 65:*

*     UNREDUCED COVERAGE -- You may choose to continue your full, pre-age
      65 coverage by paying additional premiums.

*     PARTIAL WITHDRAWAL -- You may withdraw a portion of your cash value
      and use the remainder to fund a lesser amount of coverage.

*     FULL WITHDRAWAL/TERMINATION -- You may withdraw your entire cash
      value by canceling your policy.  You'll have no further insurance
      coverage from the plan.

You may decide to take a cash withdrawal or increase your coverage amount
at any time after age 65.  However, you'll need to provide proof
of good health satisfactory to the insurance company before any coverage
increase goes into effect.

*     If you became eligible for the plan after age 55, you may elect
      unreduced coverage when you reach age 65.  However, you may not
      borrow or withdraw from your cash value until you complete 10 years
      of participation in the plan; if you do, your participation in the
      plan will end and GE will discontinue its special payments.

                                      (5)
                                       
<PAGE>

ABOUT JOINING THE PLAN

ELIGIBILITY

Because you are a GE employee in a selected leadership position on or after
January 1, 1994, you are eligible for GE Leadership Life Insurance --
provided you are "actively at work" on the date you complete your
enrollment application.  Employees in leadership positions are those in the
Executive, Senior Executive and Officer Bands.

If you are eligible for GE Leadership Life Insurance, you are not eligible
for the GE Life Insurance provided under the GE Life, Medical and
Disability Plan -- whether or not you enroll for GE Leadership Life
Insurance.  If you were covered under GE Life Insurance, your coverage ends
when you become eligible for GE Leadership Life Insurance.

Employees hired on a temporary basis, employees on retainer and other
special classes of employees as determined by the Company are not eligible
for GE Leadership Life Insurance.
If you transfer to a non-eligible position, GE will continue your
participation in this plan without interruption.

                                      (6)
                                       
<PAGE>

ENROLLMENT

To enroll, simply complete the GE Leadership Life Insurance enrollment
application form and return it to the GE Leadership Life Insurance Service
Center within 31 days of first becoming eligible.  On the form, you'll be
asked to:

*     Name your beneficiary (or beneficiaries)

*     Designate whether you're assigning ownership of the policy to a
      person other than yourself or to a trust

*     Indicate whether you are "actively at work"

*     Indicate whether you smoke cigarettes and, if so, list the date you
      last smoked

*     Sign and date the front and back.

It's important to answer the actively at work and smoking questions
accurately.  If you are not actively at work or if you are a cigarette
smoker and indicate otherwise on the form, and you die within two years
after your coverage takes effect, the insurance company reserves the right
to contest the claim -- in other words, to investigate whether you
falsified information on your application.  If the insurance company
successfully contests your claim, it may refuse to pay the death benefit.

IF YOU BECOME ELIGIBLE        AND YOU ENROLL WITHIN 31 DAYS, THEN
BECAUSE...                    YOUR COVERAGE BECOMES EFFECTIVE...

You just joined the Company   On your first day of work

You were promoted to an       On the first day of the second month
eligible position             after the month in which you are promoted.

Your policy will be delivered in April of the plan year after you enroll.

If you are not actively at work when you complete the application, the
reason for your absence will determine when your coverage begins.  In the
meantime, if you're currently covered under GE Life Insurance, your
coverage will continue until your GE Leadership Life Insurance coverage
becomes effective.

NAMING A BENEFICIARY

You select your beneficiary, the person who receives the benefits from the
plan at your death, when you enroll.  If you name more than one
beneficiary, you may indicate on the enrollment application what percentage
of the benefits each should receive.  If percentages aren't specified, the
beneficiaries will receive equal amounts.

You may, if you wish, designate a contingent beneficiary(ies) as well.
This is the person or persons who receive benefits if none of your primary
beneficiaries are alive at the time of your death.

If you have no beneficiary at your death, benefits will be paid to your
estate or according to state law.

Changing Your Beneficiary -- You may change your beneficiary designation at
any time by notifying the GE Leadership Life Insurance Service Center.
When a change of beneficiary notice is received by the insurance company,
the change becomes effective on the date you signed the request.

                                      (7)
                                       
<PAGE>

ASSIGNING POLICY OWNERSHIP

You may designate an owner other than yourself -- or assign ownership -- of
your GE Leadership Life Insurance policy.  This is often done for estate
planning purposes.

Assigning ownership -- most commonly to a trust, or in some cases, to
another person -- is typically done during the enrollment process before
your policy is issued, but you may assign ownership at any time.  However,
be aware that if you assign ownership after your coverage begins and you
die within three years, the proceeds from your insurance policy will still
be considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be part of your estate for
tax purposes -- which may defeat the purpose for assignment in the first
place.  This "three-year contemplation of death" rule applies whenever an
insurance policy is assigned to someone other than the person to whom it
was originally issued.

To assign ownership, you'll need to complete the ownership information on
the application form.

*     IF YOU ARE ASSIGNING OWNERSHIP TO ANOTHER PERSON -- Be prepared to
      provide the owner's name, Social Security Number, date of birth and
      relationship to you.  Both of you will need to sign the application
      form.

*     IF YOU ARE ASSIGNING OWNERSHIP TO AN EXISTING TRUST -- Be prepared to
      provide the title of the trust, its date of inception and its tax ID
      number.  You and the trustee(s) will need to sign both the enrollment
      application and a trust certification form.

*     IF YOU ARE ASSIGNING OWNERSHIP TO A NEW TRUST -- Be aware that
      setting up a trust can take time.  Consult with your legal or
      financial advisor as soon as possible.

IN SPECIAL CASES

AT RETIREMENT

RETIRING BEFORE AGE 65

If you retire under the GE Pension Plan before age 65, your GE Leadership
Life Insurance coverage continues at the level that was in effect on the
last day you worked if you:

*     Retire from Company service at age 60 or older with at least 10 years
      of continuous service

*     Retire on a disability pension

*     Retire under the Special Early Retirement Option

*     Receive pension benefits under the Plant Closing Pension Option with
      at least 25 years of Pension Qualification Service, or

*     Retire with a special retirement allowance.

If you meet one of these eligibility requirements, your special payments
continue to age 65, or for 10 years if you became eligible for the plan
after age 55.

                                      (8)
                                       
<PAGE>

If you do not meet these eligibility requirements, you are not eligible for
continued special payments after retirement, regardless of your age.  Your
options in this case are described in "If You Leave the Company."

RETIRING AFTER AGE 65

In most cases, special payments end at age 65, whether you are retired or
still working.  Your cash value is designed to supply the funds for
continuing the reduced coverage.  Other coverage options are also described
on page 5.

However, if you joined the plan at age 55 or older, special payments
continue for 10 years as long as you continue working or if you retire and
meet the eligibility requirements listed above.  If you do not meet the
eligibility requirements, the special payments end when you retire and your
options are described under "If You Leave the Company."

IF YOU ARE DISABLED OR LAID OFF

If you are unable to work because of a disability or because of layoff,
plant closing or other permanent job loss event, GE will continue its
special payments to you for 12 months.  Then, you may:

*     Continue coverage indefinitely by paying the required premiums
      yourself directly to the insurance company

*     Continue coverage for a limited time by using your accumulated cash
      value to pay the required premiums, or

*     Withdraw the cash value and cancel the policy -- you'll have no
      remaining insurance coverage from the plan.

The options will be described to you in more detail at the time you stop
working.

IF YOU TAKE A LEAVE OF ABSENCE

If you take an approved leave of absence, GE will continue its special
payments to you for the duration of your leave.  If you do not return to
work at the end of your leave, GE's special payments end.  Your options in
this case are described in "If You Leave the Company."

IF YOU ARE TERMINALLY ILL

If you are diagnosed as terminally ill with 12 months or less to live, you
may request a payment from your insurance policy of up to 50% of your life
insurance benefit.  You'll need to provide a written diagnosis from your
doctor satisfactory to the insurance company.  This "living benefit" will
be deducted from the life insurance benefit before the remainder is paid to
your beneficiary after your death.

If you need to access this benefit, please contact the GE Leadership Life
Insurance Service Center.

Please note that the living benefit may vary in some areas according to
state law.  It is available to both active and retired policyholders.

                                      (9)

<PAGE>

IF YOU DIE

If you die while still covered by the plan, the policy pays your coverage
amount to your beneficiary.  The cash value is not paid in addition to the
insurance benefits.  Your beneficiary can call the GE Leadership Life
Insurance Service Center at 1-800-799-4777 or the GE Benefits Inquiry
Center at 1-800-432-3450 with any questions about benefit payments or
procedures.

Benefits are usually paid in a lump sum.  However, other options are also
available, including:

*     Installments on a regular basis, such as monthly, quarterly or
      annually

*     Single or joint and survivor annuity.

You may choose one of the options for your beneficiary at any time.  If you
do not choose one in advance, your beneficiary may request one of these
options at your death.

If you or your beneficiary wishes to elect a benefit payment option other
than a lump sum, please contact the GE Leadership Life Insurance Service
Center.

IF YOU LEAVE THE COMPANY

GE's special payments end on the date your employment with GE ends for
reason other than disability, layoff, leave of absence or retirement.
Because your policy is individually owned, your coverage is portable.  This
means you may:

*     Continue coverage indefinitely by paying the necessary premiums
      yourself directly to the insurance company

*     Continue coverage for a limited time by using your accumulated cash
      value, or

*     Withdraw the cash value and cancel the policy; you'll have no
      remaining insurance coverage from the plan.

If you leave GE, you communicate directly with the insurance company
regarding your policy.

Keep in mind that you must repay the portion of the premium that GE had
advanced to the insurance company on your behalf in the year you leave,
prorated as of your date of termination.  Your coverage will continue
through March 31 following the date your employment ends -- no matter what
long-term decision you make about continuing your policy.

                                     (10)
                                       
<PAGE>

WHEN YOUR GE PARTICIPATION ENDS

Your participation in the GE Leadership Life Insurance Plan ends if you do
one of the following:

*     Leave the Company, as described on page 10,

*     Retire with less than 10 years of service or without meeting one of
      the other eligibility requirements as listed on page 8,

*     Withdraw or borrow from the cash value while GE is making special
      payments to you, or

*     Transfer to a non-participating GE business or affiliate.

In these cases, special payments from GE end, but your coverage can
continue directly with the insurance company.  If you are transferring to a
non-participating business, you may be eligible for GE-provided life
insurance offered to employees of that affiliate.

ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

PLAN DOCUMENTS

Copies of the latest annual report of plan operations and the summary plan
description for GE Leadership Life Insurance are filed with the U.S.
Department of Labor and are available for your review at any time during
normal working hours at your local human resources office or at GE
Corporate Human Resources, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, Connecticut
06431.

To request a copy of the official plan document, please write to Corporate
Benefits Delivery, P.O. Box 2213, Schenectady, New York 12301-2213.  It
will be sent within 30 days after your written request is received by
Corporate Benefits Delivery.

CLAIMS

To receive benefits, your beneficiary will need to file a claim, along with
the policy and a certified copy of the death certificate.  Forms are
available by calling the GE Leadership Life Insurance Service Center or the
GE Benefits Inquiry Center.
If a claim for benefits is denied in whole or in part, your beneficiary
will receive written notification from the claims administrator within 90
days.  The notice will include:

*     The specific reason(s) for denial, with specific reference to the
      pertinent plan provisions on which the denial was based.

*     Description of any information or materials necessary to process the
      claim properly and why the materials are needed.

*     An explanation of how to submit the claim for review.

                                     (11)
                                       
<PAGE>

Within 60 days after receiving the denial, your beneficiary may submit a
written request for reconsideration to the insurance company.  Any such
request should be accompanied by documents or records in support of the
appeal.

The insurer will respond within 60 days -- or 120 days under special
circumstances -- after receipt of the appeal, explaining the reasons for
the decision, and referring to the specific plan provisions on which the
decision is based.

The insurer has complete discretionary authority to determine benefit
payments and interpret the provisions of your policy.  The insurer's
decision with respect to policy provisions is final and binding.
The plan administrator or a designated third party, such as the plan
insurer, has the authority and responsibility to interpret the provisions
of the plan.

YOUR RIGHTS UNDER ERISA

As a participant in the GE Leadership Life Insurance plan, you are
entitled to certain rights and protection under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  Under ERISA, plan participants are
entitled to:

*     Examine, without charge at the plan administrator's office and at
      major locations, all plan documents, including insurance contracts
      and copies of all documents filed by the plan with the U.S.
      Department of Labor, such as detailed annual reports and plan
      descriptions.

*     Obtain copies of all plan documents and other plan information upon
      written request to the plan administrator; the administrator may
      charge a reasonable fee for the copies.

*     Receive a summary of the plan's annual financial report.

You have the right to expect fiduciaries -- the people who are responsible
for the management of the plans -- to act prudently and in the best
interest of you and other plan participants and beneficiaries.

Another one of your ERISA-guaranteed rights means that no one may fire you
or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from
obtaining a plan benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.  ERISA also
guarantees your rights to written notice if any part of a claim is denied,
as described in "Claims" above.

Because your rights under ERISA are protected by law, you can also file
suit if the need ever arises.  For example, if you request materials from
the plan and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a
federal court.  In such a case, the court may require the plan
administrator to provide the materials and pay a fine of up to $100 a day
until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because
of reasons beyond the control of the administrator.

You may also file suit in a state or federal court if you have a claim for
benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part.  Such a suit may

                                     (12)
<PAGE>

not be filed, however, until you have exhausted the claim appeals
procedures described on page 11.

You also can seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor or file suit
in a federal court if you believe a fiduciary has misused plan funds or
interfered with your rights under the law.  The court will decide who
should pay court costs and legal fees.

If you are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to pay
these costs and fees.  If you lose -- because, for example, the court finds
your claim frivolous -- you may be ordered to pay all these costs and fees
on your own.

If you have any questions about your rights under ERISA, you should contact
the nearest Area Office of the U.S. Labor-Management Services
Administration, Department of Labor.

PLAN TERMINATION

The Company expects and intends to continue offering GE Leadership Life
Insurance indefinitely, but reserves the right to terminate or amend the
plan, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason.

GE's decision to terminate or amend the plan may be due to changes in
federal law or state laws governing welfare benefits, the requirements of
the Internal Revenue Service or ERISA.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Employer ID number:              14-0689340

Full plan name:                  GE Leadership Life Insurance

Plan type and number:            Welfare -- Flexible-premium adjustable
                                 life insurance policy

                                 Plan number 542

Insurer:                         Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                                 One Madison Avenue
                                 New York, NY  10010

Source of special payments:      General Electric Company

Payment of benefits:             Plan insurer pays benefits

Plan administrator and           General Electric Company
agent for legal service:         3135 Easton Turnpike
                                 Fairfield, CT  06431
                                 1-800-432-3450

Plan year:                       April 1 - March 31

Policy year:                     January 1 - December 31


                                     (13)

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 11
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                                                          Exhibit 11
                STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS
<CAPTION>
(Dollars in millions, shares in thousands,                                     Fully
earnings per share in dollars)                   Earnings      Primary       diluted
                                               per common     earnings      earnings
                                                    share    per share     per share
                                               ----------    ---------     ---------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>           <C>
                  1993
                  ----
Net earnings applicable to common stock           $ 4,315      $ 4,315       $ 4,315
Dividend equivalents (net of tax)
      applicable to deferred incentive
      compensation shares                               -            7             7
                                                  -------      -------       -------

          Earnings for per-share calculations     $ 4,315      $ 4,322       $ 4,322
                                                  -------      -------       -------

Average number of shares outstanding              853,990      853,990       853,990
Average number of deferred incentive
      compensation shares                               -        4,254         4,254
Average stock option shares                             -        4,616         6,023
                                                  -------      -------       -------
          Shares for earnings calculation         853,990      862,860       864,267
                                                  -------      -------       -------

Earnings per share                                  $5.05        $5.01         $5.00
- ------------------                                  =====        =====         =====
                  1992
                  ----
Net earnings applicable to common stock           $ 4,725      $ 4,725       $ 4,725
Dividend equivalents (net of tax)
      applicable to deferred incentive
      compensation shares                               -            7             7
                                                  -------      -------       -------

          Earnings for per-share calculations     $ 4,725      $ 4,732       $ 4,732
                                                  -------      -------       -------

Average number of shares outstanding              857,198      857,198       857,198
Average number of deferred incentive
      compensation shares                               -        4,340         4,340
Average stock option shares                             -        4,721         6,071
                                                  -------      -------       -------
          Shares for earnings calculation         857,198      866,259       867,609
                                                  -------      -------       -------

Earnings per share                                  $5.51        $5.46         $5.45
- ------------------                                  =====        =====         =====
</TABLE>
                                       
                                  Page 1 of 2
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(Dollars in millions, shares in thousands,                                     Fully
earnings per share in dollars)                   Earnings      Primary       diluted
                                               per common     earnings      earnings
                                                    share    per share     per share
                                               ----------    ---------     ---------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>           <C>
                  1991
                  ----
Net earnings applicable to common stock           $ 2,636      $ 2,636       $ 2,636
Dividend equivalents (net of tax)
      applicable to deferred incentive
      compensation shares                               -            6             6
                                                  -------      -------       -------
          Earnings for per-share calculations     $ 2,636      $ 2,642       $ 2,642
                                                  -------      -------       -------

Average number of shares outstanding              868,931      868,931       868,931
Average number of deferred incentive
      compensation shares                               -        4,446         4,446
Average stock option shares                             -        3,324         4,995
                                                  -------      -------       -------
          Shares for earnings calculation         868,931      876,701       878,372
                                                  -------      -------       -------

Earnings per share                                  $3.03        $3.01         $3.01
- ------------------                                  =====        =====         =====
</TABLE>
                                       
                                  Page 2 of 2

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 12
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                                                                         Exhibit 12
                                 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
                            RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year ended December 31
(Dollars in millions)                            -----------------------------------------------
                                                  1989       1990      1991       1992      1993
                                                  ----       ----      ----       ----      ----
<S>                                            <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
GE except GECS
- --------------
"Earnings" /1/                                 $ 4,848    $ 5,225   $ 5,383    $ 5,750  $  5,751
Less:  Equity in undistributed earnings
       of General Electric Capital
       Services, Inc. /2/                         (927)      (744)     (925)      (999)   (1,197)
Plus:  Interest and other financial
       charges included in expense                 738        962       893        768       525
       One-third of rental expense /3/             201        207       225        228       212
                                               -------    -------   -------    -------  --------
Adjusted "earnings"                            $ 4,860    $ 5,650   $ 5,576    $ 5,747  $  5,291
                                               =======    =======   =======    =======  ========

Fixed Charges:
  Interest and other financial charges         $   738    $   962   $   893    $   768   $   525
  Interest capitalized                              34         26        33         29        21
  One-third of rental expense /3/                  201        207       225        228       212
                                               -------    -------   -------    -------  --------
Total fixed charges                            $   973    $ 1,195   $ 1,151    $ 1,025   $   758
                                               =======    =======   =======    =======  ========
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges                4.99       4.73      4.84       5.61      6.98
                                               =======    =======   =======    =======  ========

General Electric Company and consolidated
  affiliates
- -----------------------------------------
"Earnings" /1/                                 $ 5,105    $ 5,567   $ 5,798    $ 6,326   $ 6,726
Plus:  Interest and other financial
       charges included in expense               6,763      7,498     7,455      6,908     7,031
       One-third of rental expense /3/             246        260       281        338       378
                                               -------    -------   -------    -------  --------
Adjusted "earnings"                            $12,114    $13,325   $13,534    $13,572   $14,135
                                               =======    =======   =======    =======  ========

Fixed Charges:
  Interest and other financial charges         $ 6,763    $ 7,498   $ 7,455    $ 6,908   $ 7,031
  Interest capitalized                              47         46        41         35        26
  One-third of rental expense /3/                  246        260       281        338       378
                                               -------    -------   -------    -------  --------
    Total fixed charges                        $ 7,056    $ 7,804   $ 7,777    $ 7,281   $ 7,435
                                               =======    =======   =======    =======  ========
    Ratio of earnings to fixed charges            1.72       1.71      1.74       1.86      1.90
                                               =======    =======   =======    =======  ========
<FN>
/1/ Earnings for all years consist of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and
    minority interest. For 1991 and 1993, earnings are before cumulative effects of changes in
    accounting principle.
/2/ Earnings for all years consist of earnings after income taxes.  For 1991, earnings are before
    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle.
/3/ Considered to be representative of interest factor in rental expense.

</TABLE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                              Exhibit 21







Subsidiaries of Registrant

      General Electric's principal affiliates as of December 31, 1993,
are listed below.  All other affiliates, if considered in the aggregate
as a single affiliate, would not constitute a significant affiliate.

Affiliates of Registrant included in Registrant's Financial Statements.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           Percentage of
                                         voting securities        State or
                                            owned by the         country of
                                             immediate        incorporation or
                                             parent (1)         organization
                                        ___________________   ________________
<S>                                             <C>               <C>
Caribe General Electric Products, Inc.          100               Delaware
General Electric Canadian Holdings Limited      100               Canada
General Electric Capital Services, Inc.         100               Delaware
      General Electric Capital Corporation      100               New York
      Employers Reinsurance Corporation         100               Missouri
      Kidder, Peabody Group Inc.                100               Delaware
General Electric Plastics B.V.                  100               Netherlands
General Electric Technical Services Company     100               Delaware
GE Chemicals Inc.                               100               Delaware
GE Petrochemicals Inc.                          100               Delaware
National Broadcasting Company, Inc.             100               Delaware
Yokogawa Medical Systems, Ltd.                   75               Japan

<FN>

Notes

(1)   With respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and
      qualifying shares in names of directors are included in above
      percentages.
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                              Exhibit 23



CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



The Board of Directors
General Electric Company:

We consent to incorporation by reference in each Prospectus constituting
part of the Registration Statements of General Electric Company on Form
S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-29024, 33-3908, 2-82072, 33-37106, 33-35922,
33-44593, 33-39596, 33-39596-01, 33-47181, 33-47085 and 33-50639) and on
Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 33-4239, 33-23441, 33-24679, 2-84145, 33-
47500 and 33-49053) of our report dated February 11, 1994, relating to
the financial statements and financial statement schedules of General
Electric Company and consolidated affiliates as of December 31, 1993 and
1992 and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 1993, which report appears in the annual report on Form 10-K of
General Electric Company for the year ended December 31, 1993.  Our
report refers to changes in 1993 in the methods of accounting for
investments in certain securities and for postemployment benefits and to
a change in 1991 in the method of accounting for postretirement benefits
other than pensions.






KPMG Peat Marwick
- ---------------------------
Stamford, Connecticut
March 11, 1994


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                           Exhibit 24

                            POWER OF ATTORNEY



      KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned,
being a director, officer or other official of General Electric
Company, a New York corporation (the "Company"), hereby constitutes
and appoints John F. Welch, Jr., Benjamin W. Heineman, Jr., Dennis D.
Dammerman, and Philip D. Ameen and each of them, his or her true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution
and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and
stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports
for the Company's fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, on Form 10-K
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other
form as any such attorney-in-fact may deem necessary or desirable,
any amendments thereto, and all additional amendments thereto, each
in such form as they or any one of them may approve, and to file the
same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite
and necessary to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable
Rules and Regulations adopted or issued pursuant thereto, as fully
and to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-
fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or resubstitute,
may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.


      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set
his or her hand this 11th day of March, 1994.



John F. Welch, Jr.                        Dennis D. Dammerman
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Chairman of the Board                     Senior Vice President -
(Principal Executive                      Finance (Principal
Officer and Director)                     Financial Officer)



                      --------------------------
                      Philip D. Ameen
                      Comptroller
                      (Principal Accounting Officer)

                                                            Page 1 of 2)
H. Brewster Atwater, Jr.                  Robert E. Mercer
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Director                                  Director


D. Wayne Calloway                         Gertrude G. Michelson
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Director                                  Director


Silas S. Cathcart                         Barbara S. Preiskel
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Director                                  Director


Lawrence E. Fouraker                      Frank H. T. Rhodes
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Director                                  Director


Paolo Fresco                              Andrew C. Sigler
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Director                                  Director


Claudio X. Gonzalez                       Douglas A. Warner III
- ------------------------                  ------------------------
Director                                  Director


Henry H. Henley, Jr.
- ------------------------
Director

                  A MAJORITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

                                                           (Page 2 of 2)

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
